Sec. 60.0631. FILING INFORMATION. (a) A district shall file
with the department and the county clerk in each county in which all
or part of the district is located:
(1) the form described by Subsection (b);
(2) a complete and accurate map or plat showing the
boundaries of the district; and
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 344 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(3) a copy of the form for notice to purchasers required by
Section 60.063.
(b) The information form filed by a district under this section
must include:
(1) the name of the district;
(2) a complete and accurate legal description of the
boundaries of the district;
(3) the most recent rate of any assessments in the
district;
(4) the total amount of any bonds that have been approved
by the voters of the district, other than refunding bonds and any
bonds or portion of bonds payable solely from revenues received under
a contract with a governmental entity;
(5) the date on which the election to confirm the creation
of the district was held; and
(6) a statement of the functions performed by the district.
(c) The information form and map or plat required by this
section must be signed by a majority of the members of the board and
by each board officer before it is filed with the department and each
appropriate county clerk, and each amendment made to an information
form, map, or plat must be signed by the members of the board and by
each board officer.
(d) The information form required by this section must be filed
with each appropriate county clerk and the department not later than
48 hours after the district is approved by an election under Section
60.032 and the election results are certified.
(e) Not later than the seventh day after the date of any change
in any information contained in the district information form, map,
or plat, the district shall file with the department and each
appropriate county clerk an amendment to the information form, map,
or plat that describes the change.
(f) If a district is dissolved, annexed, or consolidated, the
board shall file with the department and each appropriate county
clerk a statement of the effective date of the dissolution,
annexation, or consolidation. A person who sells or conveys property
within a dissolved district is not required to give notice under
Section 60.063.
Added by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 746, Sec. 3, eff. Sept. 1, 2003.

Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 345 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

