Sec. 14.012. BUSINESS INFORMATION. (a) Except as provided by
Subsection (b), financial information of a warehouse operator
provided to the department is confidential and not subject to public
disclosure.
(b) Notwithstanding Subsection (a), financial information of a
warehouse operator provided to the department may be disclosed:
(1) without sealing in an administrative proceeding
commenced by the department against the warehouse operator;
(2) to a local or state law enforcement officer, a county
attorney, a district attorney, or the attorney general, acting either
independently or on behalf of the department, investigating the
warehouse operator;
(3) in a civil proceeding commenced by the warehouse
operator against the department;
(4) in response to a subpoena from a party in a civil
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 97 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

proceeding commenced against the warehouse operator;
(5) to the issuer of the warehouse operator's bond or
letter of credit;
(6) to the public after:
(A) revocation of the warehouse operator's license;
(B) a voluntary closeout of all of the license holder's
facilities in this state;
(C) a petition for bankruptcy has been filed; or
(D) a receiver for the warehouse operator's assets has
been appointed; or
(7) to any federal agency or any agency of another state
conducting a compliance inspection or criminal or civil investigation
involving the handling, storing, shipping, selling, purchasing, or
receipt of grain.
(c) In this section, "financial information" means:
(1) a financial statement or other document provided by the
warehouse operator to the department to evaluate net worth
requirements under Section 14.031(e);
(2) a financial audit provided by the warehouse operator to
the department; and
(3) if the warehouse operator is subject to an ongoing
investigation by the department:
(A) the price of grain paid by the warehouse operator
to a depositor or other seller of grain delivered to or stored or
handled by the warehouse operator;
(B) the price of grain paid by or to the warehouse
operator by a depositor or other purchaser of grain delivered to or
stored or handled by the warehouse operator; and
(C) the terms of payment for a price described by
Paragraph (A) or (B).
(d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section:
(1) a party to a contract or other agreement with a
warehouse operator may obtain a nonredacted copy of the contract or
agreement; and
(2) a person who authored or contributed to the creation of
financial information may be provided access to the financial
information for the purpose of confirming the authenticity,
truthfulness, or accuracy of the information.
Amended by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1124, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1,
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 98 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

2001.
Amended by:
Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 168 (S.B. 248), Sec. 1, eff.
September 1, 2011.

