Sec. 161.031. PERSONNEL. (a) The executive director or the
executive director's designee shall develop an intraagency career
ladder program that addresses opportunities for mobility and
advancement for employees within the commission. The program shall
require intraagency posting of all positions concurrently with any
public posting.
(b) The executive director or the executive director's designee
shall develop a system of annual performance evaluations that are
based on documented employee performance. All merit pay for
commission employees must be based on the system established under
this subsection.
(c) The commission shall provide to its members and employees,
as often as necessary, information regarding their qualifications for
office or employment under this chapter and their responsibilities
under applicable laws relating to standards of conduct for state
officers or employees.
(d) The executive director or the executive director's designee
shall prepare and maintain a written policy statement to assure
implementation of a program of equal employment opportunity under
which all personnel transactions are made without regard to race,
color, disability, sex, religion, age, or national origin. The
policy statement must include:
(1) personnel policies, including policies relating to
recruitment, evaluation, selection, appointment, training, and
promotion of personnel that are in compliance with the requirements
of Chapter 21, Labor Code;
(2) a comprehensive analysis of the commission work force
that meets federal and state guidelines;
(3) procedures by which a determination can be made about
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 877 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

the extent of underuse in the commission work force of all persons
for whom federal or state guidelines encourage a more equitable
balance; and
(4) reasonable methods to appropriately address those areas
of underuse.
(e) A policy statement prepared under Subsection (d) of this
section must cover an annual period, be updated annually and reviewed
by the Texas Commission on Human Rights for compliance with
Subsection (d)(1) of this section, and be filed with the governor's
office.
(f) The governor's office shall deliver a biennial report to
the legislature based on the information received under Subsection
(e) of this section. The report may be made separately or as a part
of other biennial reports made to the legislature.
Added by Acts 1989, 71st Leg., ch. 836, Sec. 9, eff. Sept. 1, 1989.
Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 554, Sec. 11, eff. Sept. 1,
1995.

