Sec. 181.002. PAYMENTS HELD IN TRUST. (a) Except as provided
by Subsections (b) and (g) of this section, a milk processor shall
hold in trust all payments received from the sale of milk for the
benefit of the dairy farmer from whom the milk was purchased until
the dairy farmer has received full payment of the purchase price for
the milk. For the purposes of this subsection, funds placed in
escrow in compliance with Subsections (b) through (e) of this section
are held in trust.
(b) Except as provided by Subsection (g) of this section, a
dairy farmer who sells milk to a milk processor may require the milk
processor to establish an escrow account for the benefit of the dairy
farmer. If a dairy farmer requires a milk processor to establish an
escrow account under this subsection, the milk processor shall
deposit in the escrow account, in the manner provided by Subsections
(c) through (e) of this section, all payments received from the sale
of any milk or dairy product until the dairy farmer has received full
payment of the purchase price for the milk.
(c) A milk processor required to establish an escrow account
under this section shall, on receipt of a payment from the sale of
milk or dairy products, deposit into the account a sum of money
determined by multiplying the total amount of all payments received
by the milk processor from the sale of milk or dairy products by the
fraction determined by dividing the total quantity of milk purchased
by the milk processor for sale as milk or dairy products into the
quantity of milk sold by the dairy farmer to the milk processor. The
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 993 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

milk processor shall continue to make payments into the escrow
account until the dairy farmer has received full payment of the
purchase price for the milk.
(d) An escrow account required under this section shall be
established for the benefit of the dairy farmer as a segregated,
interest-bearing account with a financial institution located in this
state the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation or the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
Corporation. If a milk processor is required to establish more than
one escrow account under this section, the milk processor may combine
the accounts into a single account. If the funds accumulated in a
combined escrow account are insufficient to pay all the dairy farmers
who have not received full payment and for whose benefit the account
was established, the agent of the institution with whom the escrow
account is established shall distribute the funds in proportion to
the amount then due to each dairy farmer.
(e) On presentation of proof of identity satisfactory to an
agent of the institution with which the escrow account is
established, the agent shall promptly distribute any funds
accumulated for the benefit of the dairy farmer to the dairy farmer
or, if required by an applicable federal milk marketing order, to the
federal milk administration.
(f) Funds held in trust by a milk processor or in an escrow
account are the property of the dairy farmer.
(g) A milk processor is not required to establish an escrow
account or maintain payments in trust under Subsection (a) or (b) of
this section for a payment if:
(1) full payment of the purchase price is not received, and
the dairy farmer does not give written notice to the milk processor,
by the end of the 30th day after the final date for payment of the
purchase price as specified by Section 181.003 of this code; or
(2) a payment instrument received by the dairy farmer is
dishonored, and the dairy farmer does not give written notice to the
milk processor, by the end of the 15th business day after the day
that the notice of dishonor was received.
Added by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., ch. 1083, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1987.
Amended by Acts 1989, 71st Leg., ch. 676, Sec. 3, eff. Sept. 1, 1989.

Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 994 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

