Sec. 125.011. CROP SHEET PROVIDED BY EMPLOYER. (a) An
employer covered by this chapter shall provide crop sheets to each
agricultural laborer pertaining to the crops that laborer will be
working with if:
(1) the laborer does not have a card issued under Section
125.009(g) of this code; or
(2) the laborer requests the crop sheets.
(b) An employer who is required under Subsection (a) of this
section to provide crop sheets to an agricultural laborer shall
ensure that the information on a crop sheet required by Sections
125.010(a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(10) of this code that pertains to the
crops with which the laborer will be working is read to the laborer
at least once each work season. When the crop sheet is read, the
employer or the employer's agent shall inform the laborer of the date
on which chemicals covered by this chapter were last applied or are
scheduled to be applied to the field or to other areas in which the
laborer will be working and shall inform the laborer of the time on
which the reentry period, if any, expired for chemicals covered by
this chapter that have been applied.
(c) If an employer is required under Subsection (b) of this
section to read a crop sheet to an agricultural laborer, the employer
or a person designated by the employer shall read the appropriate
crop sheets on the first day of each work season or on the day the
laborer begins employment with that employer, whichever is later.
(d) In addition to the crop sheet, the department shall require
an employer to offer to the agricultural laborer, on the day on which
the laborer is given his first pay for that work season, basic safety
and health-related information approved by the department. That
information shall be available to the employers free of charge.
(e) An employer who does not provide or read the crop sheets as
required by this section is not entitled to the 14 days' written
notice provided by Section 125.016(d) of this code.
Added by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., ch. 903, Sec. 1, eff. Jan. 1, 1988.

