Sec. 71.0091. SEIZURE, TREATMENT, AND DESTRUCTION OF A CITRUS
PLANT, CITRUS PLANT PRODUCT, OR CITRUS SUBSTANCE. (a) The
department may seize a citrus plant, citrus plant product, or citrus
substance that the department determines:
(1) is transported or carried from a quarantined area in
violation of a quarantine order;
(2) is infected with a disease or insect pest dangerous to
a citrus plant, citrus plant product, or citrus substance, without
regard to whether the citrus plant, citrus plant product, or citrus
substance comes from an area known to be infested; or
(3) is located within proximity to a plant infected by a
disease dangerous to any agricultural or horticultural product and is
determined by the department to likely be infected by that disease,
regardless of whether the plant currently exhibits symptoms of the
disease.
(b) If a citrus plant, citrus plant product, or citrus
substance is seized under Subsection (a)(1), the department
immediately shall notify the owner that the citrus plant, citrus
plant product, or citrus substance is a public nuisance and that it
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 421 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

must be destroyed, treated, or, if feasible, returned to its point of
origin. If a citrus plant, citrus plant product, or citrus substance
is seized under Subsection (a)(2) or (3), the department immediately
shall notify the owner that the citrus plant, citrus plant product,
or citrus substance is a public nuisance and must be destroyed or
treated.
(c) If the owner of a citrus plant, citrus plant product, or
citrus substance seized under Subsection (a)(1) or (2) is unknown to
the department, the department shall publish or post notice that, not
earlier than the fifth day after the first day on which notice is
published or posted, the department may destroy the citrus plant,
citrus plant product, or citrus substance. The department shall
publish the notice for three consecutive days in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county in which the citrus plant, citrus
plant product, or citrus substance is located or post the notice in
the immediate vicinity of the area in which the citrus plant, citrus
plant product, or citrus substance is located. The notice must
describe the citrus plant, citrus plant product, or citrus substance
seized. If the owner claims the citrus plant, citrus plant product,
or citrus substance before the date for destruction set by the
notice, the department shall deliver the citrus plant, citrus plant
product, or citrus substance to the owner at the owner's expense. If
the owner does not claim the citrus plant, citrus plant product, or
citrus substance before the date the notice specifies that
destruction is permitted, the department may destroy or arrange for
the destruction of the citrus plant, citrus plant product, or citrus
substance.
(d) If the owner of a citrus plant, citrus plant product, or
citrus substance seized by the department under this section fails or
refuses to treat or destroy the citrus plant, citrus plant product,
or citrus substance immediately after being instructed to do so by
the department, the department may abate the nuisance by destroying
the citrus plant, citrus plant product, or citrus substance or may
otherwise treat the citrus plant, citrus plant product, or citrus
substance so that it is no longer a nuisance. In enforcing this
subsection, the department may call on the sheriff of the county in
which the citrus plant, citrus plant product, or citrus substance is
located, and the sheriff shall cooperate with the department and
provide assistance necessary to abate the nuisance.
(e) The owner of a citrus plant, citrus plant product, or
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 422 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

citrus substance treated or destroyed under Subsection (a)(1) or (2)
by the department under this section is liable to the department for
the costs of treatment or destruction, and the department may sue to
collect those costs.
(e-1) The department may provide for compensation to an owner
of a citrus plant, citrus plant product, or citrus substance
destroyed under Subsection (a)(3).
(f) The department may enter into an agreement with a private
entity to obtain assistance in defraying the cost of implementing
this section.
Added by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 230, Sec. 1, eff. May 20, 1993.
Amended by Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 211, Sec. 4, eff. Sept. 1, 1997.
Amended by:
Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 1050 (H.B. 4577), Sec. 2, eff.
September 1, 2009.

