Sec. 125.008. EMERGENCY INFORMATION. (a) Employers covered by
this chapter and other entities who normally store products labeled
under the federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7
U.S.C. Section 136 et seq.) in an amount in excess of 55 gallons or
500 pounds or an amount the department determines by rule for certain
highly toxic or dangerous chemicals covered by this chapter within
one-quarter mile of a residential area composed of three or more
private dwellings shall provide to the fire chief of the fire
department having jurisdiction over the storage place, in writing,
the names and telephone numbers of knowledgeable representatives of
the employer or other entity storing the product who can be contacted
for further information or contacted in case of an emergency.
(b) Each employer, on request, shall provide a copy of the
workplace chemical list to the fire chief having jurisdiction over
the storage place. The employer shall notify the fire chief of any
significant changes that occur in the workplace chemical list.
(c) The fire chief having jurisdiction over the storage place
or his representative, on request, shall be permitted to conduct onsite inspections of the chemicals on the workplace chemical list for
the sole purpose of preparing fire department activities in case of
an emergency.
(d) Employers shall provide to the fire chief having
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 728 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

jurisdiction over the storage place, on request, a copy of the MSDS
for any chemical on the workplace chemical list.
(e) On request, the fire chief having jurisdiction over the
storage place shall make the workplace chemical list and MSDSs
available to members of the fire department having jurisdiction over
the workplace and to other personnel outside the fire department who
are responsible for preplanning emergency activities, but may not
otherwise distribute the information without approval of the
employer.
Added by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., ch. 903, Sec. 1, eff. Jan. 1, 1988.

