Sec. 80.009.

POWERS OF BOARD AND COMMISSIONER.

(a)

The board

may:
(1) conduct programs consistent with the declaration of
policy stated in Section 80.001;
(2) accept, as necessary to implement this chapter, gifts
and grants;
(3) borrow money, with the approval of the commissioner, as
necessary to execute this chapter;
(4) take other action and exercise other authority as
necessary to execute any act authorized by this chapter or the Texas
Non-Profit Corporation Act (Article 1396-1.01 et seq., Vernon's Texas
Civil Statutes); and
(5) form an advisory committee composed of individuals from
this state, other states, or other countries and change membership on
the committee, as necessary. Any advisory committee created under
this subdivision for the purpose of establishing treatment methods
shall include among its members persons with knowledge of the effects
of different treatments on the health of agricultural workers, the
local population, and the ecosystem, including but not limited to the
effects of a particular method of treatment on beneficial organisms
and wildlife, the potential for secondary infestations from nontarget
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 596 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

pests, and the potential for pest resistance to particular methods of
treatment.
(b) On petition of at least 30 percent of the citrus producers
eligible to vote in the proposed area, the commissioner may, or at
the commissioner's discretion the commissioner by rule may, add an
area to a pest management zone or transfer an area or county from one
zone to another zone if:
(1) citrus production has begun or could begin in the area;
(2) the area is adjacent to a pest management zone or is in
an area with biological characteristics similar to the pest
management zone; and
(3) the addition is approved in a referendum held in the
area.
(c) The board must adopt a procurement policy, subject to
approval by the commissioner, outlining the procedures to be used in
purchasing.
(d) The commissioner at any time may inspect the books and
other financial records of the corporation.
Added by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 506 (S.B. 1016), Sec. 10.01,
eff. September 1, 2009.

