Sec. 128.006. NOTICE BEFORE PURCHASE; REQUIRED NOTICE BEFORE
CLAIMING LIEN. (a) A person claiming a lien under this chapter must
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 737 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

have provided notice of the provisions of this chapter, before
purchase, either generally to purchasers of agricultural chemicals,
agricultural seeds, or labor as part of the lien claimant's normal
business practices or specifically to the lien debtor. Notice
provided under this subsection must read, to the extent applicable,
substantially as follows: "The sale of agricultural chemicals or
agricultural seed on credit and the provision of labor related to
agricultural chemicals or agricultural seed is subject to Chapter
128, Agriculture Code. Failure to pay the agreed or reasonable
charges for the chemicals, seed, or labor may result in the
attachment of a lien to the proceeds of the agricultural products
produced with the aid of the chemicals, seed, or labor." A potential
lien claimant may satisfy the requirements of this subsection:
(1) by printing or stamping the notice on credit
applications filled out by purchasers; and
(2) for future purchases by purchasers who are not notified
on the credit application, by printing or stamping the notice on an
invoice or on a statement sent by separate cover.
(b) Before a person may claim a lien under this chapter, the
person must send to the debtor by certified mail written notice that
states:
(1) that the payment of the reasonable or agreed charges is
more than 30 days overdue;
(2) the amount that is overdue;
(3) that the debtor has the following three alternatives:
(A) to allow the lien to be filed;
(B) to enter into an agreement granting a security
interest in the proceeds described by Section 128.002 under the
Business & Commerce Code; or
(C) to pay the reasonable or agreed charges; and
(4) in at least 10-point type, that:
(A) the debtor has until the 10th day after the date on
which the notice is received to select an alternative under
Subdivision (3), notify the claimant of the alternative selected, and
satisfy all the requirements of the selected alternative; and
(B) the claimant may file the notice of claim of lien
at any time after the 10th day after the date on which the debtor
receives the notice if the debtor does not comply with the
requirements of Paragraph (A).

Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 738 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 197, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1995.

