Sec. 2.003. POLICY. (a) The agricultural policy of this state
must consider and address:
(1) water availability issues, including planning for water
supplies and drought preparedness and response, by ensuring that a
high priority is assigned to the agricultural use of water;
(2) transportation issues, by ensuring an efficient and
well-maintained farm-to-market road system and intermodal
transportation to provide adequate transportation for agricultural
products at competitive rates;
(3) state regulatory issues, by ensuring the efficiency and
profitability of agricultural enterprises while at the same time
protecting the health, safety, and welfare of agricultural workers
and citizens of this state;
(4) state tax policy, by encouraging tax policy that
promotes the agriculture industry, including production and
processing;
(5) the availability of capital, including state loans or
grants authorized by Section 52-a, Article III, Texas Constitution,
by facilitating access to capital through loans and grants authorized
by the Texas Constitution for agricultural producers who have
established or intend to establish agricultural operations in Texas;
(6) the promotion of Texas agricultural products, by
promoting the orderly and efficient marketing of agricultural
commodities and enhancing and expanding sales of Texas raw and
processed agricultural products in local, domestic, and foreign
markets;
(7) eradication, control, or exclusion of:
(A) injurious pests and diseases that affect crops and
livestock; and
(B) noxious plant and brush species;
(8) research and education efforts, including financial
risk management, consumer education, and education in the public
schools, by encouraging promotional and educational programs
involving all segments of agriculture and maintaining a solid
foundation of stable and long-term support for food and agricultural
research while improving accountability and gathering public input
concerning research;
(9) promotion of efficient utilization of soil and water
resources, by encouraging efforts to sustain the long-term
productivity of landowners by conserving and protecting the basic
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 3 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

resources of agriculture, including soil, water, and air, while
working within federal mandates relating to natural resources;
(10) rural economic and infrastructure development, by
enhancing, protecting, and encouraging the production of food and
other agricultural products;
(11) protection of property rights and the right to farm,
by promoting and protecting agricultural activities that are
established before nonagricultural activities located near the
agricultural activities and are reasonable and consistent with good
agricultural practices;
(12) preservation of farmland, ranchland, timberland, and
other land devoted to agricultural purposes, by encouraging the
development and improvement of the land for the production of food
and other agricultural products consistent with the philosophy of a
private property rights state;
(13) food safety, by continuing to support production of
the safest food in the world with regulations based on sound
scientific evidence;
(14) efforts to participate in the formulation of federal
programs and policies, by actively addressing the development of
federal policy that affects this state;
(15) promotion of rural fire service, by seeking
opportunities to improve the sustainability and effectiveness of
rural fire service for the protection of the general public and
natural resources; and
(16) promotion of value-added agricultural enterprises, by
promoting efforts to increase the value of Texas agricultural
products through processing, management practices, or other
procedures that add consumer benefits to agricultural goods.
(b) For the purposes of Subsection (a)(11), an agricultural
activity is presumed to be:
(1) reasonable and not a nuisance; and
(2) a good agricultural practice not adversely affecting
public health and safety if the activity is undertaken in conformity
with federal, state, and local laws and regulations.
Added by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 301, Sec. 2, eff. May 29, 1999.
Amended by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 3, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2001.
Amended by:
Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 87 (S.B. 1969), Sec. 2.001, eff.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 4 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

September 1, 2009.

