Sec. 14.035. CANCELLATION OF CERTIFICATE OF DEPOSIT OR CASH.
(a) A warehouse operator may not repossess a certificate of deposit
or cash approved by and deposited with the department in lieu of a
bond unless:
(1) the department gives written approval of a substitute
bond or letter of credit; and
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 109 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(2) at least two years have passed after the expiration of
the last licensing period during which the certificate of deposit or
cash was deposited with the department in lieu of a bond.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the
department may not release a certificate of deposit or cash deposited
with the department while a claim filed within the applicable
limitations period established under Section 14.065 is pending before
the department or a court.
(c) A warehouse operator may, on written request to the
department, recover cash or a certificate of deposit from the
department before the expiration of the two-year period specified in
Subsection (a)(2) if:
(1) the department performs a closeout inspection;
(2) the department determines on the best available
evidence that no outstanding obligations exist at the time of the
closeout inspection;
(3) the warehouse operator submits with the written request
a bond:
(A) in an amount equal to six cents per bushel for 50
percent of the total storage capacity of the facility or combination
covered by the cash or certificate of deposit the warehouse operator
is attempting to recover; and
(B) covering any failure of obligation that may have
occurred during all licensing periods covered by the cash or
certificate of deposit the warehouse operator is attempting to
recover; and
(4) at least 30 days have passed since the closeout
inspection.
(d) A claim against the bond required by Subsection (c) must be
filed with the department or in a court of competent jurisdiction not
later than the second anniversary of the date of the closeout
inspection.
Added by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1124, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2001.

SUBCHAPTER E. INSURANCE
