Sec. 201.051. DISSOLUTION OF CONSERVATION DISTRICT. (a) A
conservation district may be dissolved by majority vote of the
eligible voters in an election conducted in the manner provided by
this subchapter for its creation. The board of directors of the
conservation district shall notify the state board of the outcome of
an election under this section.
(b) On receiving notice of a vote to dissolve a conservation
district, the state board shall determine whether the conservation
district should continue to operate. If the state board determines
that continuing the operation of the conservation district is not
administratively practicable and feasible, the state board shall
deliver to the secretary of state certification of the district's
dissolution.
(c) Certification by the state board to the secretary of state
is sufficient notice of the dissolution of a conservation district.
The secretary of state shall issue to the directors of the dissolved
district a certificate of dissolution and shall record the fact of
dissolution in the appropriate records of the secretary's office.
(d) On receiving a certificate of dissolution, the board of
directors of the dissolved district shall terminate the affairs of
the conservation district. The board shall transfer to the state
board all property owned by the conservation district. The state
board may:
(1) sell the property at a public auction and deposit the
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1037 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

net proceeds of the sale in the State Treasury; or
(2) make the property available for use by other
conservation districts.
(e) If the dissolution of a conservation district is for the
purpose of adjusting the boundaries and the conservation district is
immediately reorganized, the funds and equipment of the dissolved
conservation district pass to the reorganized conservation district.
If more than one conservation district is created under the
reorganization, the funds and equipment of the dissolved conservation
district shall be divided under terms satisfactory to the directors
of the reorganized conservation districts.
(f) The state board may not conduct an election under this
section for a conservation district before the end of the fifth year
after the date of the last election under this section for that
district.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1469, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1985, 69th Leg., ch. 611, Sec. 6, eff. Sept. 1, 1985.

