Sec. 80.014. DISCONTINUATION OF PROGRAM AND CORPORATION AND
DISPOSITION OF FUNDS ON DISCONTINUANCE. (a) On the determination by
the corporation that the pest suppression program has been completed
in all pest management zones established under this chapter, the
corporation shall provide notice of the completion to the
commissioner along with a request for discontinuance of the control
and suppression program and collection of the assessment. Any
request under this subsection must include documentation supporting
the fact that pests are no longer a threat to the state's citrus
industry and a plan for discontinuance of the program and assessment.
(b) The commissioner shall determine whether or not the further
suppression of pests is necessary in the pest management zones and
approve or disapprove discontinuance of the corporation and the plan
for dissolution.
(c) On completion of the dissolution, the corporation shall
file a final report with the commissioner, including a financial
report, and submit all remaining funds into the trust of the
commissioner. Final books of the corporation shall be filed with the
commissioner and are subject to audit by the department.
(d) The commissioner shall pay from the corporation's remaining
funds all of the corporation's outstanding obligations.
(e) Funds remaining after payment under Subsection (d) shall be
returned to contributing citrus producers on a pro rata basis.
(f) If 30 percent or more of the citrus producers eligible to
vote within a zone participating in the program present to the
commissioner a petition calling for a referendum of the qualified
voters on the proposition of discontinuing the program, the
commissioner shall conduct a referendum for that purpose.
(g) The commissioner shall give notice of the referendum, the
referendum shall be conducted, and the results shall be declared in
the manner provided by law for the original referendum and election,
with any necessary exceptions provided by rule of the commissioner.
(h) The commissioner shall conduct the referendum before the
90th day after the date the petition was filed, except that a
referendum may not be held before the second anniversary of any other
referendum in the pest management zone pertaining to establishing or
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 600 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

discontinuing the pest management zone.
(i) Approval of the proposition requires the same vote as
required in a referendum under Section 80.016(g). If the proposition
is approved, the suppression program is abolished and the pest
management zone ceases to exist on payment of all debts of the pest
management zone.
Added by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 506 (S.B. 1016), Sec. 10.01,
eff. September 1, 2009.
Amended by:
Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 29 (S.B. 1749), Sec. 6, eff.
September 1, 2015.

