Sec. 19.013. CIVIL PENALTY; INJUNCTION. (a) A person who
violates this chapter, a rule adopted under this chapter, or an order
adopted under this chapter is liable to the state for a civil penalty
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 165 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

not to exceed $500 for each violation. Each day a violation
continues is a separate violation for purposes of civil penalty
assessment.
(b) On request of the department, the attorney general or the
county attorney or district attorney of the county in which the
violation is alleged to have occurred shall file suit to collect the
penalty.
(c) A civil penalty collected under this section in a suit
filed by the attorney general shall be deposited to the credit of an
account in the general revenue fund. A civil penalty collected under
this section in a suit filed by a county or district attorney shall
be divided between the state and the county in which the county or
district attorney brought suit, with 50 percent of the amount
collected paid to the state for deposit to the credit of an account
in the general revenue fund and 50 percent of the amount collected
paid to the county. Funds credited to the account in the general
revenue fund may be appropriated only to the department for purposes
of administering and enforcing this chapter and rules adopted under
this chapter.
(d) The department is entitled to appropriate injunctive relief
to prevent or abate a violation of this chapter or an order adopted
under this chapter. On request of the department, the attorney
general or the county or district attorney of the county in which the
alleged violation is threatened or occurring shall file suit for the
injunctive relief. Venue is in the county in which the alleged
violation is threatened or is occurring.
(e) A person is not subject to both a criminal penalty under
Section 19.012 and a civil penalty under this section for the same
violation of law.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 358, Sec. 1, eff. June 8, 1995.
Amended by:
Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 166 (S.B. 1427), Sec. 9, eff.
September 1, 2013.

