Sec. 161.116. SALE OR DELIVERY OF DISEASED CATTLE. (a) In
this action, "diseased" means affected by actinobacillosis,
actinomycosis, carcinoma, mastitis, or any other disease that renders
the carcass of an animal potentially dangerous for human consumption
and has been so designated by rule of the commission.
(b) Except as provided by Subsection (c) of this section, a
person may not sell diseased cattle unless:
(1) the cattle are sold through a livestock market where
visual examination of livestock is made by an agent of the commission
or by the United States Department of Agriculture; or
(2) the cattle are sold by a recognized slaughtering
establishment maintaining federal, state, or state-approved
veterinary postmortem inspection.
(c) The original owner of diseased cattle may sell the cattle
in violation of Subsection (b) of this section if the cattle are sold
and delivered on the premises of the original owner, but the
purchaser shall comply with the requirements of this section.
(d) A person may not release diseased cattle from a livestock
market unless the cattle are:
(1) consigned directly to a federally approved terminal
market or to a slaughtering establishment maintaining federal, state,
or state-approved veterinary postmortem inspection; and
(2) accompanied by a certificate or permit issued by a
representative of the commission or the United States Department of
Agriculture naming the terminal market or slaughtering establishment.
(e) This section does not prevent the original owner of
diseased cattle, or an agent of the owner, from voiding the sale of
the cattle if the owner is not satisfied with the top bid price, but
the owner shall obtain a certificate or permit under Subsection (d)
of this section and shall deliver the cattle to the place specified
on the certificate or permit. A person is not liable for a violation
of this subsection unless the agent of the commission shows the
person a list of approved establishments to which the cattle may be
consigned and allows the person to select an establishment from that
list.
(f) A person may not deliver or divert diseased cattle
consigned under a certificate or permit issued under Subsection (d)
of this section to a place other than the terminal market or
slaughtering establishment named in the certificate or permit. The
cattle must be delivered to the terminal market or slaughtering
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 909 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

establishment not later than the fifth day following the day on which
the certificate or permit is issued.
(g) A person may not release diseased cattle from a terminal
market or slaughtering establishment to which the cattle have been
consigned under a certificate or permit issued under Subsection (d)
of this section except on authority of the commission.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1403, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.

SUBCHAPTER H. REMEDIES AND PENALTIES
