Sec. 165.026. FEEDING GARBAGE TO SWINE. (a) A person may not
feed restricted garbage to swine or provide restricted garbage to any
person for the purpose of feeding swine, except that a facility
operated by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice may feed
restricted garbage to swine if the garbage is properly treated in
accordance with applicable federal requirements.
(b) A person may feed unrestricted garbage to swine only if the
person first registers with and secures a permit from the commission.
(c) The commission may adopt rules for registration under this
section, including rules providing for registration issuance,
revocation, and renewal, disease tests, inspections, bookkeeping, and
appropriate handling and treatment of unrestricted garbage.
Registration with the commission shall be made on forms prescribed by
the commission, and the commission shall furnish those forms on
request. The commission may impose a registration fee not to exceed
$25 a year.
(d) The commission or the executive director of the commission
may issue an emergency administrative order to suspend a registration
under this section or require the immediate quarantine and closure of
a garbage feeding facility if the commission or the executive
director determines that the practice presents a danger to public
health or the livestock industry, including any danger related to an
insect infestation or the transmission of a disease. An order must
expire not later than the end of the second month after the effective
date of the order.
(e) The commission or the commissioner may issue an order
prohibiting the feeding of restricted garbage to swine in all or part
of the state if the commission or the commissioner determines that
the practice presents a danger to public health or the livestock
industry, including any danger related to an insect infestation or
the transmission of a disease.
(f) This section does not apply to an individual who feeds
unrestricted garbage from the individual's own household, farm, or
ranch to swine owned by the individual.
(g) The commission, in cooperation with the department and any
other appropriate state agencies and political subdivisions, shall:
(1) attempt to inform each supplier of restricted garbage
and each individual feeding garbage to swine of the provisions of
this section;
(2) assist garbage feeding facilities and individuals
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 950 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

feeding garbage to swine in identifying a source for obtaining
unrestricted garbage; and
(3) adopt measures designed to ensure compliance with this
section.
(h) In this section:
(1) "Restricted garbage" includes:
(A) the animal refuse matter and the putrescible animal
waste resulting from handling, preparing, cooking, or consuming food
containing all or part of an animal carcass;
(B) the animal waste material by-products or commingled
animal and vegetable waste material by-products of a restaurant,
kitchen, cookery, or slaughterhouse; and
(C) refuse accumulations of animal matter or commingled
animal and vegetable matter, liquid or otherwise.
(2) "Unrestricted garbage" includes the vegetable, fruit,
dairy, or baked goods refuse matter and vegetable waste and refuse
accumulations resulting from handling, preparing, cooking, or
consuming food containing only vegetable matter, liquid or otherwise.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1430, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 764, Sec. 4, eff. Sept. 1, 1999;
Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1207, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2001.

