Sec. 142.010. RECOVERY OF IMPOUNDED ESTRAY BY OWNER. (a) The
owner of an estray may recover possession of the estray at any time
before the estray is sold under this chapter if:
(1) the owner has provided the sheriff or the sheriff's
designee with an affidavit of ownership under this section;
(2) the sheriff or the sheriff's designee has approved the
affidavit of ownership;
(3) the approved affidavit of ownership has been filed in
the estray records of the county clerk;
(4) the owner has paid all estray handling expenses under
this section;
(5) the owner has executed an affidavit of receipt of
estray under this section and delivered it to the sheriff; and
(6) the sheriff has filed the affidavit of receipt of
estray in the estray records of the county clerk.
(b) An affidavit of ownership must contain at least the
following information:
(1) the name and address of the owner;
(2) the date the owner discovered that the animal was an
estray;
(3) the property from which the animal strayed;
(4) a description of the animal, including its breed,
color, sex, age, size, markings of any kind, including ear markings
and brands, and other identifying characteristics; and
(5) a sworn statement that the affiant is the owner or
caretaker of the animal.
(c) The owner of the estray shall pay the expenses incurred by
a person or by a sheriff, sheriff's designee, or the county in
impounding, handling, seeking the owner of, or selling the estray.
The sheriff is also entitled to a collection fee as provided by
Section 142.005 of this code. The total amount of the payment is
determined by the sheriff.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 813 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(d) A person who disagrees with the amount of the payment set
by the sheriff in Subsection (c) of this section may petition the
justice court in the manner provided by Section 142.007 of this code
and may appeal the justice court decision as provided by Section
142.008 of this code.
(e) An affidavit of receipt of estray must contain at least the
following information:
(1) the name and address of the person receiving the
estray;
(2) the date of receipt of the estray;
(3) the method of claim to the estray, either previous
owner or purchaser at sale;
(4) if purchased at sale, the amount of the gross purchase
price of the estray;
(5) the estray handling expenses paid; and
(6) the net proceeds of any sale of the estray.
Amended by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., ch. 51, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1987.

