Sec. 131.001. DEFINITIONS. In this chapter:
(1) "Abandoned apiary, equipment, or bees" means an apiary,
equipment, or a colony of bees that is not regularly maintained or
attended in accordance with this chapter or rules or quarantines
adopted under this chapter.
(2) "Apiary" means a place where six or more colonies of
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 746 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

bees or nuclei of bees are kept.
(3) "Beekeeper" means a person who owns, leases, or manages
one or more colonies of bees for pollination or the production of
honey, beeswax, or other by-products, either for personal or
commercial use.
(4) "Bee" means any stage of the common honeybee, Apis
mellifera species.
(5) "Colony" means the hive and its equipment and
appurtenances including bees, comb, honey, pollen, and brood.
(6) "Director" means the director of the Texas Agricultural
Experiment Station.
(7) "Disease" means American foulbrood, European foulbrood,
any other contagious or infectious disease of honeybees, or parasites
or pests that affect bees or brood.
(8) "Equipment" means hives, supers, frames, veils, gloves,
tools, machines, or other devices for the handling and manipulation
of bees, honey, pollen, wax, or hives, including, storage or
transporting containers for pollen, honey, or wax, or other apiary
supplies used in the operation of an apiary or honey house.
(9) "Inspector" means the chief apiary inspector.
(10) "Label" as a noun, means written or printed material
accompanying a product and furnishing identification or a
description. The term includes material attached to a product or its
immediate container and material inserted in an immediate container
or other packaging of a product.
(11) "Label" as a verb, means to attach or insert a label.
(12) "Nucleus" means a small mass of bees and combs of
brood used in forming a new colony.
(13) "Pollen" means dust-like grains formed in the anthers
of flowering plants in which the male elements or sperm are produced.
(14) "Pure honey" means the nectar of plants that has been
transformed by, and is the natural product of, bees and that is in
the comb or has been taken from the comb and is packaged in a liquid,
crystallized, or granular form.
(15) "Queen apiary" means an apiary in which queen bees are
reared or kept for sale, barter, or exchange.
Amended by Acts 1983, 68th Leg., p. 1884, ch. 350, Sec. 1, eff. Sept.
1, 1983; Acts 1985, 69th Leg., ch. 418, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1985.

Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 747 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

