Sec. 142.013. DISPOSITION OR SALE OF IMPOUNDED ESTRAYS. (a)
If the ownership of an estray is not determined before the third day
after the date of the final advertisement under this chapter or if
the estray is not redeemed before the 18th day after the date of
impoundment, the county has title to the estray and the sheriff
shall, except as provided by Subsection (e), cause the estray to be
sold at a sheriff's sale or public auction licensed by the United
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 814 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

States Department of Agriculture. Title to the estray is considered
vested in the sheriff or the sheriff's designee for purposes of
passing good title, free and clear of all claims, to the purchaser at
the sale or for the purposes of Subsection (e).
(b) The sheriff shall receive the proceeds of the sale and
shall allocate those proceeds in the following order of priority:
(1) payment of the expenses of sale;
(2) payment of the impoundment fee and other charges due
the sheriff; and
(3) if applicable, payment of any amount for maintenance
and damages due the owners of the private property from which the
estray was impounded.
(c) The sheriff shall execute a report of sale of impounded
livestock and file the report in the estray records of the county
clerk.
(d) If there are sale proceeds remaining from the sale of an
impounded estray after all expenses have been paid, the sheriff shall
pay the balance to the owner, if known. If the owner is still
unknown, the sheriff shall pay the balance to the county official
charged with collecting and disbursing county funds, who shall
deposit any payment received to the credit of the jury fund of the
county for the uses made of that fund, subject to claim by the
original owner of the estray.
(e) If a sheriff determines that the sale of an estray under
this section is unlikely to generate sufficient proceeds to cover the
expense of the sale, the sheriff may, instead of selling the estray:
(1) donate the estray to a nonprofit organization; or
(2) retain the estray and use it for county purposes.
Amended by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., ch. 51, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1987;
Acts 1999, 76th Leg., ch. 1329, Sec. 1, 2, eff. Sept. 1, 1999.

