Sec. 74.114. CONDUCT OF BOARD ELECTIONS AND REFERENDA;
BALLOTING. (a) The commissioner shall conduct a referendum or board
election authorized under this subchapter. At the end of each fouryear period in which an eradication program has been operational in a
zone, the commissioner shall hold a referendum in the zone on the
continuation of the eradication program. The referendum shall be
held at the same time as the election of a board member from the
zone. Approval of the referendum on continuation is by a majority of
those voting in the referendum.
(a-1) Notwithstanding Subsection (a), the commissioner may
conduct only one referendum on continuation in each zone on or after
September 1, 2005. The commissioner shall include on the ballot
adequate notice of:
(1) the fact that a referendum on continuation is the final
referendum on continuation for the zone in which it is held; and
(2) the existence of the petition provision in Section
74.112(f).
(b) The foundation shall bear all expenses incurred in
conducting a referendum or board election.
(c) The commissioner shall adopt rules for voting in board
elections and referenda to establish or continue eradication zones.
Rules adopted under this subsection must include provisions for
determining:
(1) who is a cotton grower eligible to vote in an election
or referendum;
(2) whether a board member is elected by a plurality or a
majority of the votes cast; and
(3) the area from which each board member is elected.
(d) A cotton grower having cotton production in a proposed or
established eradication zone is entitled to:
(1) vote in a referendum concerning the eradication zone;
and
(2) elect board members to represent the eradication zone.
(e) An eligible cotton grower may vote only once in a
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 492 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

referendum or board election.
(f) Ballots in a referendum or board election shall be mailed
directly to a central location, to be determined by the commissioner.
A cotton grower eligible to vote in a referendum or board election
who has not received a ballot from the commissioner, foundation, or
another source shall be offered the option of requesting a ballot by
mail or obtaining a ballot at the office of the county agent of the
Texas Agricultural Extension Service or a government office
distributing ballots in a county in the proposed or established zone
in which the referendum or board election is conducted.
(g) A referendum is approved if:
(1) at least two-thirds of those voting vote in favor of
the referendum; or
(2) those voting in favor of the referendum farm more than
50 percent, as determined by the commissioner, of the cotton acreage
in the relevant eradication zone.
(h) If a referendum under this subchapter is not approved, the
commissioner may conduct another referendum. A referendum under this
subsection may not be held before one year after the date on which
the last referendum on the same issue was held.
(i) A public hearing regarding the proposed eradication
program, including information regarding regulations to be
promulgated by the commissioner, may be held by the commissioner in
each of several locations within each boll weevil or pink bollworm
eradication zone. The area posted for each hearing shall include no
more than six contiguous counties that have cotton production at the
time of the hearing.
(j) Individual voter information, including an individual's
vote in a referendum or board election conducted under this section,
is confidential and is not subject to disclosure under the open
records law, Chapter 552, Government Code.
Added by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 8, Sec. 1, eff. 1, 1993. Amended
by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 227, Sec. 10, eff. Sept. 1, 1995; Acts
1997, 75th Leg., ch. 463, Sec. 1.16, 2.06, eff. May 30, 1997.
Amended by:
Acts 2005, 79th Leg., Ch. 119 (S.B. 1428), Sec. 2, eff. September
1, 2005.

Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 493 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

