Sec. 162.014. REVIEW OF CURRENT TUBERCULOSIS PROGRAMS AND
IMPLEMENTATION OF IMPROVED PROGRAM. (a) The following agencies,
colleges, and services jointly shall conduct a review of the state's
current programs to research, control, and eradicate animal
tuberculosis in both traditional and nontraditional farm and ranch
animals:
(1) the commission;
(2) the Department of Agriculture;
(3) the Texas Agricultural Experiment Station;
(4) the Texas Agricultural Extension Service;
(5) the Texas Animal Damage Control Service;
(6) the Texas Department of Health;
(7) the College of Veterinary Medicine, Texas A&M
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 926 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

University; and
(8) the Texas Veterinary Medical Diagnostic Laboratory.
(b) The Texas Agricultural Experiment Station is the
coordinating agency for the review.
(c) Each agency, college, or service conducting the review
under Subsection (a) shall as part of its review seek the advice and
opinions of persons who are involved in commercially raising or
feeding traditional or nontraditional farm or ranch animals. The
Texas Agricultural Experiment Station shall ensure that persons who
are involved in commercially raising or feeding traditional or
nontraditional farm or ranch animals have ample notice of and
opportunity to comment on the review's findings and that the comments
of those persons are considered part of the review's findings.
(d) The agencies, colleges, and services listed under
Subsection (a) shall implement an improved program based on the
review conducted under Subsection (a) that is designed to research,
control, and eradicate animal tuberculosis in both traditional and
nontraditional farm and ranch animals. The agencies, colleges, and
services shall agree on the elements of the improved program that
will be implemented by each agency, college, or service. The
improved program may not conflict with current law.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 89, Sec. 1, eff. May 16, 1995.

CHAPTER 163. BRUCELLOSIS CONTROL
SUBCHAPTER A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
