Sec. 12.013. EMPLOYEES. (a) The department may employ
personnel as the duties of the department require. The commissioner
shall provide to the department's employees, as often as necessary,
information regarding their qualifications for employment and their
responsibilities under applicable laws relating to standards of
conduct for state employees.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 16 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(b) The commissioner or the commissioner's designee shall
develop a system of annual performance evaluations that are based on
documented employee performance. All merit pay for department
employees must be based on the system established under this
subsection.
(c) The commissioner or the commissioner's designee shall
develop an intraagency career ladder program that addresses
opportunities for mobility and advancement for employees within the
department. The program shall require intraagency postings of all
positions concurrently with any public posting.
(d) The commissioner or the commissioner's designee shall
prepare and maintain a written policy statement to assure
implementation of a program of equal employment opportunity under
which all personnel transactions are made without regard to race,
color, disability, sex, religion, age, or national origin. The
policy statement must include:
(1) personnel policies, including policies relating to
recruitment, evaluation, selection, appointment, training, and
promotion of personnel that comply with the requirements of Chapter
21, Labor Code;
(2) a comprehensive analysis of the department work force
that meets federal and state guidelines;
(3) procedures by which a determination can be made about
the extent of underuse in the department work force of all persons
for whom federal or state guidelines encourage a more equitable
balance; and
(4) reasonable methods to appropriately address those areas
of underuse.
(e) A policy statement prepared under Subsection (d) of this
section must cover an annual period, be updated annually and reviewed
by the Texas Commission on Human Rights for compliance with
Subsection (d)(1) of this section, and be filed with the governor's
office.
(f) The governor's office shall deliver a biennial report to
the legislature based on the information received under Subsection
(e) of this section. The report may be made separately or as a part
of other biennial reports made to the legislature.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1019, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1989, 71st Leg., ch. 230, Sec. 3, eff. Sept. 1, 1989;
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 17 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 419, Sec. 1.02, eff. Sept. 1, 1995.

