Sec. 201.001. FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND POLICY. (a) The
legislature finds that the farm and grazing lands of the State of
Texas are among the basic assets of the state and that the
preservation of these lands is necessary to protect and promote the
health, safety, and general welfare of its people; that improper
land-use practices have caused and have contributed to, and are now
causing and contributing to, progressively more serious erosion of
the farm and grazing lands of this state by wind and water; that the
breaking of natural grass, plant, and forest cover has interfered
with the natural factors of soil stabilization, causing loosening of
soil and exhaustion of humus, and developing a soil condition that
favors erosion; that the topsoil is being blown and washed out of
fields and pastures; that there has been an accelerated washing of
sloping fields; that these processes of erosion by wind and water
speed up with removal of absorptive topsoil, causing exposure of less
absorptive and less protective but more erosive subsoil; that
failure by an occupier of land to conserve the soil and control
erosion upon the land causes a washing and blowing of soil and water
onto other lands and makes the conservation of soil and control of
erosion on those other lands difficult or impossible.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1005 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(b) The consequences of soil erosion in the form of soilblowing and soil-washing are the silting and sedimentation of stream
channels, reservoirs, dams, ditches, and harbors; the loss of
fertile soil material in dust storms; the piling up of soil on lower
slopes, and its deposit over alluvial plains; the reduction in
productivity or outright ruin of rich bottom lands by overwash of
poor subsoil material, sand, and gravel swept out of the hills;
deterioration of soil and its fertility, deterioration of crops, and
declining acre yields despite development of scientific processes for
increasing such yields; loss of soil and water that causes
destruction of food and cover for wildlife; a blowing and washing of
soil into streams that silt over spawning beds and destroy
waterplants, diminishing the food supply of fish; a diminishing of
the underground water reserve that causes water shortages,
intensifies periods of drought, and causes crop failures; an
increase in the speed and volume of rainfall runoff, causing severe
and increasing floods that bring suffering, disease, and death;
impoverishment of families attempting to farm eroding and eroded
lands; damage to roads, highways, railways, farm buildings, and
other property from floods and from dust storms; and losses in
navigation, hydroelectric power, municipal water supply, irrigation
developments, farming, and grazing.
(c) In order to conserve soil resources and control and prevent
soil erosion, it is necessary that land-use practices contributing to
soil waste and soil erosion may be discouraged and discontinued, and
appropriate soil-conserving land-use practices be adopted and carried
out. Among the procedures necessary for widespread adoption are
engineering operations such as the construction of terraces, terrace
outlets, check dams, dikes, ponds, ditches, and the like; the
utilization of strip-cropping, lister furrowing, contour cultivating,
and contour furrowing; land irrigation; seeding and planting of
waste, sloping, abandoned, or eroded lands to water-conserving and
erosion-preventing plants, trees, and grasses; forestation and
reforestation; rotation of crops, soil stabilization with trees,
grasses, legumes, and other thick-growing, soil-holding crops,
retardation of runoff by increasing absorption of rainfall; and
retirement from cultivation of steep, highly erosive areas and areas
now badly gullied or otherwise eroded.
(d) It is the policy of the legislature to provide for the
conservation of soil and related resources of this state and for the
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1006 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

control and prevention of soil erosion, and thereby to preserve
natural resources, control floods, prevent impairment of dams and
reservoirs, assist in maintaining the navigability of rivers and
harbors, preserve wildlife, protect the tax base, protect public
lands, and protect and promote the health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this state, and thus to carry out the
mandate expressed in Article XVI, Section 59a, of the Texas
Constitution. It is further declared as a matter of legislative
intent and determination of policy that the State Soil and Water
Conservation Board is the state agency responsible for implementing
the constitutional provisions and state laws relating to the
conservation and protection of soil resources.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1458, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1985, 69th Leg., ch. 611, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1985.

