Sec. 14.015. POWERS AND DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT. The department
shall administer this chapter and may:
(1) investigate the storing, shipping, and handling of
grain and complaints relating to these activities through the
inspection of:
(A) any public grain warehouse;
(B) the grain stored in any warehouse; or
(C) all property and records pertaining to a warehouse;
(2) determine whether a warehouse for which a license has
been issued or applied for is suitable for properly storing,
shipping, or handling grain that is stored in or expected to be
stored in the warehouse;
(3) include field seed within the definition given to
"grain" by Section 14.001;
(4) require that a warehouse operator keep records or
submit reports the department determines are necessary in the
administration of this chapter;
(5) require a warehouse operator or depositor to terminate
storing, shipping, and handling agreements within a time specified by
the department:
(A) on closeout or revocation of the warehouse
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 100 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

operator's license;
(B) if grain has been abandoned by the warehouse
operator or a depositor and the warehouse operator or depositor
cannot be located after diligent effort; or
(C) on issuance of an injunction ordering an unlicensed
warehouse operator to cease operations;
(6) prescribe forms, including the form of receipts, bonds,
or applications for licenses;
(7) for purposes of determining compliance with this
chapter or amounts due to a depositor in an action taken by the
department against a surety or surety instrument under this chapter,
determine a warehouse operator's specific obligations to a depositor,
including:
(A) the type, quantity, or quality of open storage or
receipted grain due a depositor;
(B) the payment owed a depositor if a shortage or
variance exists in the type, quantity, or quality of a depositor's
open storage or receipted grain;
(C) the time and manner of delivery of grain due a
depositor; and
(D) whether a warehouse operator has failed to deliver
a depositor's open storage or receipted grain within a reasonable
time;
(8) by written order require a warehouse operator to
deliver grain of a particular type, quantity, and quality to a
depositor at a particular time and in a particular manner based on
the department's determination that the required delivery of grain is
due the depositor;
(9) classify grain by category, including open storage,
receipted, identity-preserved, company-owned, and abandoned grain,
and adopt rules regarding the storage, shipping, or handling of
classified grain, including recordkeeping and accounting
requirements;
(10) seize the records of a warehouse operator, including
any electronic records or the equipment or media on which the records
are stored, during a period of suspension of a warehouse operator's
license;
(11) seal or post as sealed, or both seal and post as
sealed, the warehouse of a warehouse operator:
(A) whose license has been suspended or revoked;
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 101 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(B) whose license has expired; or
(C) who is unlicensed;
(12) seal or post as sealed, or both seal and post as
sealed, a warehouse that is found to be unsafe for inspection or
unsuitable for the storage of grain;
(13) during reasonable hours and to determine compliance
with this chapter, enter any facility where the department reasonably
believes grain is being handled, stored, shipped, purchased, or sold
to examine:
(A) the facility's storage, shipping, handling, and
financial records;
(B) grain; and
(C) physical structures;
(14) determine the suitability of a warehouse for storing,
shipping, or handling grain or for adequate and safe inspection and,
if found unsuitable for any of those purposes, order corrective
action;
(15) require the warehouse operator to notify the
department regarding:
(A) the handling of commodities that may pose a hazard
to humans, animals, the grain of other depositors in the warehouse
operator's warehouse, or the grain industry;
(B) existing hazards to inspection, including recent or
ongoing fumigations of warehouse facilities and unsafe or inoperable
warehouse equipment or structures; or
(C) any change in ownership, management, or legal or
financial status of a warehouse licensed under this chapter;
(16) require by rule that sales, purchase, or brokerage
agreements between a warehouse operator and a producer be in writing
and contain written terms or provisions the department considers
appropriate to protect producers, depositors, and warehouse operators
and to ensure the department's ability to carry out its regulatory
functions under this chapter;
(17) regulate a warehouse operator's temporary storage of
grain in a non-warehouse location or facility;
(18) require segregation of grain requiring identity
preservation;
(19) enter into cooperative agreements with agencies of the
federal government or other states to carry out the purposes of this
chapter;
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 102 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(20)

recover the unused warehouse receipts of a warehouse

operator:
(A) during any period of probation or suspension of the
warehouse operator's license;
(B) on revocation or voluntary surrender of the
warehouse operator's license; or
(C) during any period in which the warehouse operator
is not licensed, including after a failure to timely renew the
license;
(21) order corrective action or impose any reasonable
condition of probation necessary to accomplish the regulatory goals
authorized by this chapter; and
(22) adopt rules necessary to carry out the provisions of
this chapter.
Acts 1981,
Amended by
Acts 1995,
Renumbered
1124, Sec.

67th Leg., p. 1047, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 553, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1993;
74th Leg., ch. 419, Sec. 3.06, eff. Sept. 1, 1995.
from Sec. 14.003 and amended by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch.
1, eff. Sept. 1, 2001.

SUBCHAPTER C. LICENSING
