Sec. 125.009. TRAINING PROGRAM PROVIDED BY DEPARTMENT. (a)
The department in conjunction with the Texas Agricultural Extension
Service shall develop an on-going training program for agricultural
laborers. The program must provide information the department
considers appropriate, and must include:
(1) information on interpreting labels and MSDSs and the
relationship between those two methods of hazard communication;
(2) information on the proper storage, acute and chronic
effects, and safe handling of chemicals covered by this chapter;
(3) information on protective clothing and equipment and
first aid treatment to be used with respect to the chemicals covered
by this chapter; and
(4) general safety instructions on the handling, cleanup
procedures, and disposal of chemicals covered by this chapter.
(b) The department shall provide the training program in
counties with a hired farm labor work force of 2,000 or more,
according to the most recent United States Census of Agriculture.
The department by rule may determine to provide the training program
in additional counties with a significant farm labor work force or
based on other relevant factors. In all other counties, the county
office of the Texas Agricultural Extension Service shall provide the
training program.
(c) The department or the county office of the Texas
Agricultural Extension Service, as appropriate, shall notify
agricultural laborers on a regular basis of the training program by
public service announcements given by the media and shall contact in
writing charitable, public, religious, and health care provider
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 729 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

organizations to announce the training program to agricultural
laborers in the county served by the organization.
(d) In addition to the Texas Agricultural Extension Service,
the department may develop the training program in conjunction with
the Texas Department of Health, other appropriate state agencies,
clinics, hospitals, and other health care providers in counties in
which the training program will be conducted, and organizations
representing employers, organizations representing employees, and
organizations representing manufacturers of chemicals covered by this
chapter.
(e) The department shall prepare and make available to
employers appropriate training materials for employers covered by
this chapter and their managers and labor contractors.
(f) To help cover production costs, the department may charge
not more than $10 plus the cost of a blank videotape from a person
desiring to purchase the videotaped training program.
(g) The department or the county office of the Texas
Agricultural Extension Service, as appropriate, shall provide to each
agricultural laborer who completes the training program a card
evidencing participation in the program. An employer may not refuse
to hire an agricultural laborer solely because the laborer does not
have a card issued under this subsection. An employer who refuses to
hire an agricultural laborer for that reason is not entitled to the
14 days' written notice provided by Section 125.016(d) of this code.
Added by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., ch. 903, Sec. 1, eff. Jan. 1, 1988.

