Sec. 63.158. FIRE PREVENTION AT AMMONIUM NITRATE STORAGE
FACILITIES. (a) The owner or operator of an ammonium nitrate storage
facility shall, on request, at a reasonable time:
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 406 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(1) allow a fire marshal to enter the facility to make a
thorough examination of the facility; and
(2) allow the local fire department access to the facility
to perform a pre-fire planning assessment.
(b) A fire marshal who determines the presence of one or more
of the following hazardous conditions that endangers the safety of a
structure or its occupants by promoting or causing fire or combustion
shall notify the owner or operator of the facility of the need to
correct the condition. The hazardous conditions are:
(1) the presence of a flammable substance;
(2) a dangerous or dilapidated wall, ceiling, or other
structural element;
(3) improper electrical components, heating, or other
building services or facilities;
(4) the presence of a dangerous chimney, flue, pipe, main,
or stove, or of dangerous wiring;
(5) the dangerous storage of substances other than ammonium
nitrate or ammonium nitrate material, including storage or use of
hazardous substances; or
(6) inappropriate means of egress, fire protection, or
other fire-related safeguard.
(c) The owner or operator of an ammonium nitrate storage
facility shall:
(1) on request by a fire marshal or the service provide
evidence of compliance with:
(A) Chapter 505 or 507, Health and Safety Code, as
applicable; and
(B) United States Department of Homeland Security
registration requirements;
(2) post National Fire Protection Association 704 warning
placards on the outside of the storage area;
(3) store ammonium nitrate or ammonium nitrate material:
(A) in a fertilizer storage compartment or bin
constructed of wood, metal, or concrete that is protected against
impregnation by the ammonium nitrate or ammonium nitrate material;
and
(B) separately from any non-fertilizer materials; and
(4) separate ammonium nitrate or ammonium nitrate material
from combustible or flammable material by 30 feet or more.
(d) A fire marshal who identifies the existence of a hazardous
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 407 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

condition under Subsection (b) or a violation of Subsection (a) or
(c) shall notify the service of the condition or violation.
(e) If notified by a fire marshal of a hazardous condition
under Subsection (b), the service may direct the owner or operator of
the facility to correct the condition.
(f) If notified by the fire marshal of a violation of
Subsection (a) or (c), the service shall:
(1) direct the owner or operator of the facility to correct
the violation as provided by Subsection (g); or
(2) take appropriate enforcement action as authorized by
this chapter.
(g) If directed by the service to correct a hazardous condition
or a violation, an owner or operator shall remedy the condition or
violation before the expiration of a period specified by the service,
which may not exceed 10 days. If the service determines that the
condition or violation has not been remedied before the expiration of
the specified period, the service shall take appropriate enforcement
action as authorized by this chapter.
(h) Section 419.909(b), Government Code, does not apply to an
examination of an ammonium nitrate storage facility by a fire marshal
under this section.
Added by Acts 2015, 84th Leg., R.S., Ch. 515 (H.B. 942), Sec. 2, eff.
June 16, 2015.

CHAPTER 64. ARBITRATION OF SEED PERFORMANCE DISPUTES
