Sec. 76.007. INTERAGENCY COOPERATION. (a) The department
shall be the lead agency for pesticide regulation in Texas. In
cooperation with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or any
federal agency responsible for implementation of federal pesticide
law, the department shall:
(1) register pesticides for use in Texas;
(2) adopt lists of state-limited-use pesticides;
(3) provide for training, certification, and licensure of
all classes of pesticide applicators;
(4) enforce pesticide laws and regulations governing the
safe handling, use, storage, distribution, and disposal of pesticide
products; and
(5) adopt rules to carry out the provisions of this
chapter.
(b) The Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission shall
have principal authority to regulate and control water pollution. If
the United States Environmental Protection Agency adopts a final rule
requiring states to implement a state management plan for pesticides
in groundwater, the department shall cooperate with the Texas
Groundwater Protection Committee in the committee's development and
implementation of federally mandated state management plans for
pesticides in groundwater in accordance with Section 26.407, Water
Code.
(c) The department shall seek advice from the Texas Natural
Resource Conservation Commission, the Parks and Wildlife Department,
the Texas Department of Health, and the Texas Agricultural Extension
Service in reviewing applications for special local need or emergency
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 515 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

pesticide registrations. The department shall act expeditiously to
review any application for special local need or emergency pesticide
registrations.
(d) The department shall give written notice to the Texas
Natural Resource Conservation Commission whenever it has probable
cause to believe that serious contamination of water has occurred as
a result of use, misuse, manufacture, storage, or disposal of
pesticides so that the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission
may proceed with an investigation of a possible violation of the
Water Code.
(1) If the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission
determines that a violation of the Water Code has occurred, the
commission shall seek the remedies provided by the Water Code.
(2) If the department determines that a violation of the
Agriculture Code has occurred regarding the use, manufacture,
storage, or disposal of pesticides, the department shall seek the
remedies provided by this code.
(3) The foregoing remedies shall not be mutually exclusive.
(e) The Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission shall
give written notice to the department whenever it has probable cause
to believe that serious contamination of water has occurred as a
result of the use, misuse, storage, disposal, or manufacture of
pesticides so that the department may proceed with an investigation
to determine if a violation of the Agriculture Code has occurred.
(1) If the department determines that a violation of the
Agriculture Code has occurred, the department shall seek the remedies
provided by this code.
(2) If the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission
determines that a violation of the Water Code has occurred, the Texas
Natural Resource Conservation Commission shall seek the remedies
provided by the Water Code.
(3) The foregoing remedies shall not be mutually exclusive.
(f) The department shall consult with the Texas Department of
Health before denying or canceling a pesticide registration because
of a suspected public health threat. The department shall also
coordinate enforcement efforts with the department of health when a
serious public health threat is suspected.
(g) A regulatory agency may receive grants-in-aid from any
federal agency and may enter into cooperative agreements with a
federal agency, an agency of this state, a subdivision of this state,
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 516 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

or an agency of another state for the purpose of obtaining assistance
in the implementation of this chapter.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1191, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1989, 71st Leg., ch. 230, Sec. 79, eff. Sept. 1,
1989; Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 76, Sec. 11.05, eff. Sept. 1, 1995;
Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 1369, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1997.

