Sec. 76.119. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION RELATING TO PRIVATE
PESTICIDE APPLICATOR LICENSE HOLDERS. (a) In this section,
"predator control device" means a device that incorporates an active
ingredient and is used for the control of livestock predators.
(b) Except as provided by Subsection (c), a governmental entity
in this state may not disclose:
(1) the name, address, or telephone number of a person who
holds a private pesticide applicator license issued under this
subchapter and is authorized to use a predator control device if
disclosure of the person's name, address, or telephone number would
reveal that the person:
(A) is authorized to use a predator control device;
(B) has used a predator control device; or
(C) has the intent to use a predator control device;
(2) the name, address, or telephone number of the owner or
operator of land on which a predator control device has been used, is
being used, or is intended to be used, if disclosure of the
information would reveal that use or intended use; or
(3) information identifying the land on which a predator
control device has been used, is being used, or is intended to be
used, if disclosure of the information would reveal the name,
address, or telephone number of the owner or operator of the land.
(c) A governmental entity may disclose to the following the
name, address, or telephone number of a person who holds a private
pesticide applicator license issued under this subchapter, who is
authorized to use a predator control device, and who either has used
a predator control device or has the intent to use a predator control
device:
(1) a person who holds a pesticide dealer license under
Section 76.071 and is authorized to distribute predator control
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 546 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

devices;
(2) another governmental entity in this state in connection
with official business;
(3) the United States Environmental Protection Agency under
a cooperative agreement entered into with that agency;
(4) any other agency of the United States that provides the
governmental entity with an administrative or judicial subpoena for
the information; or
(5) the appropriate agency or court in an administrative or
judicial proceeding in which the private pesticide applicator license
holder is a defendant.
(d) A governmental entity and the officers and employees of the
governmental entity are immune from civil or criminal liability for
an unintentional violation of this section.
Added by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 1059, Sec. 1, eff. June 20, 2003.

