Sec. 12.032. COOPERATION WITH STATE OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE
HEARINGS. (a) The commissioner and the chief administrative law
judge of the State Office of Administrative Hearings by rule shall
adopt a memorandum of understanding under which the State Office of
Administrative Hearings conducts hearings for the department under
this code. The memorandum of understanding shall require the chief
administrative law judge, the department, and the commissioner to
cooperate in connection with the hearings under this code and may
authorize the State Office of Administrative Hearings to perform any
administrative act, including giving of notice, that is required to
be performed by the department or the commissioner under this code.
The memorandum of understanding shall also require that hearings
under this section be held at a location agreed upon by the State
Office of Administrative Hearings and the department.
(b) For a hearing conducted by the State Office of
Administrative Hearings under this code, the department and the
commissioner retain the authority to decide whether the
administrative law judge conducting the hearing for the State Office
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 40 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

of Administrative Hearings shall:
(1) enter the final decision in the case after completion
of the hearing; or
(2) propose a decision to the department or the
commissioner for final consideration.
(c) Any provision of this code that provides that the
department or the commissioner take an action at a hearing means:
(1) that the department or the commissioner shall take the
action after the receipt of a proposal for decision from the State
Office of Administrative Hearings regarding the hearing conducted by
that office; or
(2) if so directed by the department or the commissioner,
the State Office of Administrative Hearings shall enter the final
decision in the case after completion of the hearing.
(d) The department shall prescribe rules of procedure for any
cases not heard by the State Office of Administrative Hearings.
(e) The department by interagency contract shall reimburse the
State Office of Administrative Hearings for the costs incurred in
conducting administrative hearings for the department. The
department may pay an hourly fee for the costs of conducting these
hearings or a fixed annual fee negotiated biennially by the
department and the State Office of Administrative Hearings to
coincide with the department's legislative appropriations request.
(f) This section does not apply to hearings held under Chapter
103.
Added by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 419, Sec. 3.01, eff. Sept. 1,
1995.

