Sec. 58.022. POWERS OF AUTHORITY. The authority has all powers
necessary to accomplish the purposes and programs of the authority,
including the power:
(1) to adopt and enforce bylaws, rules, and procedures and
perform all functions necessary for the board to carry out this
chapter;
(2) to sue and be sued, complain, and defend, in its own
name;
(3) to adopt and use an official seal and alter it when
considered advisable;
(4) to acquire, hold, invest, use, pledge, and dispose of
its revenues, income, receipts, funds, and money from every source
and to select one or more depositories, inside or outside the state,
subject to this chapter, any resolution, bylaws, or in any indenture
pursuant to which the funds are held;
(5) to establish, charge, and collect fees, charges, and
penalties in connection with the programs, services, and activities
provided by the authority in accordance with this chapter;
(6) to issue its bonds, to provide for and secure the
payment of the bonds, and provide for the rights of the owners of the
bonds, in the manner and to the extent permitted by this chapter, and
to purchase, hold, cancel, or resell or otherwise dispose of its
bonds, subject to any restrictions in any resolution authorizing the
issuance of its bonds;
(7) to procure insurance and pay premiums on insurance of
any type, in amounts, and from insurers as the board considers
necessary and advisable to accomplish any of its purposes;
(8) to make, enter into, and enforce contracts, agreements,
including management agreements, for the management of any of the
authority's property, leases, indentures, mortgages, deeds of trust,
security agreements, pledge agreements, credit agreements, and other
instruments with any person, including any lender and any federal,
state, or local governmental agency, and to take other actions as may
accomplish any of its purposes;
(9) to own, rent, lease, or otherwise acquire, accept, or
hold real, personal, or mixed property, or any interest in property
in performing its duties and exercising its powers under this
chapter, by purchase, exchange, gift, assignment, transfer,
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 296 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

foreclosure, mortgage, sale, lease, or otherwise and to hold, manage,
operate, or improve real, personal, or mixed property, wherever
situated;
(10) to sell, lease, encumber, mortgage, exchange, donate,
convey, or otherwise dispose of any or all of its properties or any
interest in its properties, deed of trust or mortgage lien interest
owned by it or under its control, custody, or in its possession, and
release or relinquish any right, title, claim, lien, interest,
easement, or demand however acquired, including any equity or right
of redemption in property foreclosed by it, and to do any of the
foregoing by public or private sale, with or without public bidding,
notwithstanding any other law; and to lease or rent any improvements,
lands, or facilities from any person to effect the purposes of this
chapter;
(11) to request, accept, and use gifts, loans, donations,
aid, appropriations, guaranties, allocations, subsidies, grants, or
contributions of any item of value for the furtherance of any of its
purposes;
(12) to make secured or unsecured loans for the purpose of
providing temporary or permanent financing or refinancing for
eligible agricultural businesses for the purposes authorized by this
chapter, including the refunding of outstanding obligations,
mortgages, or advances issued for those purposes, and charge and
collect interest on those loans for such loan payments and on such
terms and conditions as the board may consider advisable and not in
conflict with this chapter;
(13) to secure the payment by the state or the authority on
guarantees and to pay claims from money in the authority's funds
pursuant to the loan guarantee and insurance programs implemented by
the authority;
(14) to purchase or acquire, sell, discount, assign,
negotiate, and otherwise dispose of notes, debentures, bonds, or
other evidences of indebtedness of eligible agricultural businesses,
whether unsecured or secured, as the board may determine, or portions
or portfolios of or participations in those evidences of
indebtedness, and sell and guarantee securities, whether taxable or
tax exempt under federal law in primary and secondary markets in
furtherance of any of the authority's purposes; and
(15) to exercise all powers given to a corporation under
Chapter 22, Business Organizations Code, to the extent not
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 297 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

inconsistent with this chapter.
Added by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., 2nd C.S., ch. 32, art. 2, Sec. 1, eff.
Oct. 20, 1987.
Amended by:
Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 1197 (S.B. 1214), Sec. 5, eff.
June 14, 2013.

