Sec. 201.050. CHANGE IN CONSERVATION DISTRICT OR SUBDIVISION
BOUNDARIES. (a) A group of eligible voters may petition the state
board for the inclusion of additional territory in an existing
conservation district. Except as provided by Subsection (b) of this
section, the petition is governed by, and the state board shall
conduct proceedings on the petition in accordance with, the
provisions of this subchapter relating to petitions for the creation
of a conservation district. The state board shall prescribe the form
for the petition, which must be as similar as practicable to the form
provided for petitions for the creation of a conservation district.
(b) If there are fewer than 100 eligible voters in the area
proposed for inclusion in the conservation district, and the petition
is signed by two-thirds of those persons, the area may be included in
the conservation district without an election. A person is eligible
to vote at an election for including territory in an existing
conservation district only if the person owns land in the territory
to be included.
(c) The board of directors of one or more conservation
districts may submit a petition to the state board requesting a
division of the conservation district, a combination of two or more
conservation districts, or a transfer of land from one conservation
district to another. The petition must be signed by a majority of
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1036 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

the directors of each conservation district affected. The state
board shall determine the practicability and feasibility of the
proposed change. If the state board determines that the change is
not administratively practicable and feasible, it shall record that
determination and deny the petition. If the board determines that
the change is administratively practicable and feasible, it shall
record that determination and reorganize the conservation districts
in the manner set out in the petition.
(d) The state board, in cooperation with the landowners of a
conservation district, may change the boundaries of the subdivisions
of the conservation district as may be necessary or desirable because
of additions of territory to the conservation district.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1469, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.

