Sec. 12.050. TRADE AGRICULTURAL INSPECTION GRANT PROGRAM. (a)
Using money appropriated for this purpose or money received under
Subsection (g), the department may make a grant to a nonprofit
organization for the purpose of promoting the agricultural processing
industry in this state by reducing wait times for agricultural
inspections of vehicles at ports of entry along the border with the
United Mexican States.
(b) The department shall request proposals for the award of a
grant under this section. The department shall evaluate the
proposals and award a grant based on the proposed program's
quantifiable effectiveness and the potentially positive impact on the
agricultural processing industry in this state.
(c) A grant awarded under this section must be made to an
organization that has demonstrated experience working with border
inspection authorities to reduce border crossing wait times.
(d) A grant recipient may use grant money received under this
section only to pay for activities directly related to the purpose of
the grant program as described by Subsection (a). A grant recipient
may use grant money to reimburse a federal governmental agency that,
at the request of the grant recipient, provides additional border
agricultural inspectors or pays overtime to border agricultural
inspectors at ports of entry along the border with the United Mexican
States.
(e) The department shall establish procedures to administer the
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 56 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

grant program, including a procedure for the submission of a proposal
and a procedure to be used by the department to evaluate a proposal.
(f) The department shall enter into a contract that includes
performance requirements with each grant recipient. The department
shall monitor and enforce the terms of the contract. The contract
must authorize the department to recoup grant money from a grant
recipient for failure of the grant recipient to comply with the terms
of the contract.
(g) The department may solicit and accept gifts, grants, and
donations from any source for the purpose of awarding grants under
this section.
(h) To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a
nonprofit organization must provide matching funds. The department
may not award a grant to a nonprofit organization until the
department certifies that the nonprofit organization has the matching
funds. The amount of the grant may not exceed the amount of matching
funds. The department may not require a nonprofit organization to
provide matching funds in an amount that exceeds the amount of the
grant.
(i) The total amount of grants awarded under this section may
not exceed $725,000 for the duration of the program.
(j) The department may adopt any rules necessary to implement
this section.
(k) Not later than January 15, 2025, the department shall
evaluate the performance of the program under this section and submit
a report to the legislature. The report must include an evaluation of
agricultural inspections affected by the program, including the
extent to which the program is reducing wait times for agricultural
inspections of vehicles at ports of entry along the border with the
United Mexican States.
(l) Unless continued in existence by the legislature, this
section expires September 1, 2025.
Added by Acts 2019, 86th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1351 (H.B. 2155), Sec. 1,
eff. September 1, 2019.
Amended by:
Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 655 (H.B. 1371), Sec. 1, eff.
June 15, 2021.

Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 57 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

