Sec. 12.039. CERTAIN WINE PRODUCED OR BOTTLED IN THIS STATE.
(a) The Texas Wine Marketing Research Institute or other qualified
entity shall, as funding is available, conduct an annual study
relating to the quantities and varieties of grapes and other fruit
grown in this state that are used for wine making.
(b) Not later than October 15 of the study year, the Texas Wine
Marketing Research Institute or other qualified entity shall submit a
report to the commissioner. The report must:
(1) include:
(A) the quantities and varieties of grapes and other
fruit grown in this state that are available on September 30 of the
study year for use in wine making;
(B) the needs of wineries in this state for those
grapes and other fruit to meet the wineries' projected production
estimates for the following calendar year; and
(C) recommendations regarding the varieties of grapes
and other fruit grown in this state for which a reduction in the
percentage by volume of Texas grapes used should be granted under
Subsection (d); or
(2) state that funding was not available to complete the
study required by this section.
(c) If a statement is provided in accordance with Subsection
(b)(2), the reporting entity shall include in the report:
(1) any information that has been routinely collected or
developed by the reporting entity and that might be useful in
determining the quantities and varieties of grapes and other fruit
grown in this state that are available for use in wine making the
following calendar year; and
(2) recommendations regarding the varieties of grapes and
other fruit grown in this state for which a reduction in the
percentage by volume of Texas grapes used should be granted under
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 45 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Subsection (d).
(d) The commissioner shall review the report and, if the
commissioner determines that the quantity of a variety of grapes or
other fruit grown in this state is insufficient for the wineries in
this state to produce their projected production estimates during the
following calendar year, the commissioner may reduce the percentage
by volume of fermented juice of grapes or other fruit grown in this
state that wine containing that particular variety of grape or other
fruit must contain under Section 16.011, Alcoholic Beverage Code.
The percentage established under this subsection must ensure that the
use of that variety of grape or other fruit grown in this state is
maximized while allowing for the acquisition of grapes or other fruit
grown outside of this state in a quantity sufficient to meet the
needs of wineries in this state.
(e) The commissioner shall submit the commissioner's
determination to the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission in writing
and publish the commissioner's determination in the Texas Register
and on the department's Internet website not later than December 31
of the study year.
(f) A percentage requirement established under Subsection (d)
applies to wine bottled under Section 16.011, Alcoholic Beverage
Code, during the calendar year following the study year.
(g) If a winery in this state finds that the determination made
by the commissioner under Subsection (d) does not reduce the
percentage requirement with respect to a particular variety of grape
or other fruit to a level sufficient for the winery to meet the
winery's planned production for the relevant year, the winery may
submit documentation or other information to the commissioner
substantiating that the winery has not been able to acquire those
grapes or other fruit grown in this state in an amount sufficient to
meet the winery's production needs. If the commissioner determines
that there is not a sufficient quantity of that variety of grapes or
other fruit grown in this state to meet the needs of that winery, the
commissioner may reduce the percentage requirement for wine bottled
during the remainder of the calendar year that contains that variety
of fruit.
(h) The commissioner may:
(1) establish a voluntary registry for vineyards and other
fruit growers in this state to assist in the determination of the
availability of grapes and other fruit grown in this state and
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 46 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

facilitate communication between the wineries and fruit growers in
this state regarding the availability of and need for grapes and
other fruit for wine making; and
(2) assess a fee to cover the cost of administering the
registry.
(i) Information gathered through a registry established under
Subsection (h) shall be posted on the department's Internet website
and may be made available in any other format agreed on by the
commissioner and a requestor who pays the appropriate fee for
reproducing the record.
(j) The vineyard and fruit growers registry fund is an account
in the general revenue fund. Fees collected under Subsection (h)
shall be deposited to the credit of that account. Money in the
account may be appropriated only to the department and may be used
only to cover administrative and personnel costs of the department
associated with administering a registry established under Subsection
(h).
Added by Acts 2005, 79th Leg., Ch. 878 (S.B. 1137), Sec. 1, eff. June
17, 2005.

