Sec. 14.057. RECORDS. (a) Every warehouse operator shall keep
in a safe place complete and correct records and accounts pertaining
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 116 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

to the public grain warehouse, including records and accounts of:
(1) grain received and withdrawn from the warehouse;
(2) unissued receipts in the warehouse operator's
possession;
(3) receipts and scale weight tickets issued by the
warehouse operator; and
(4) receipts returned to and canceled by the warehouse
operator.
(b) The warehouse operator shall retain the records required by
this section for the period of time prescribed by the department.
The warehouse operator shall retain copies of receipts or other
documents evidencing ownership of grain or liability of a warehouse
operator as long as the documents are outstanding. If the documents
are canceled, the warehouse operator shall retain the documents or
receipts for a period of not less than two years from the date of
cancellation.
(c) The warehouse operator shall:
(1) clearly mark all canceled receipts "canceled" and mark
on the face of each receipt the date of the cancellation;
(2) keep records and accounts required by this section
separate from the records and accounts of other businesses;
(3) issue in numerical order all scale weight tickets and
receipts; and
(4) keep in numerical order copies of the scale weight
tickets and receipts issued by the warehouse operator.
(d) In records kept under this section, grain may be designated
as company-owned grain only if:
(1) the grain has been paid for and is wholly owned by the
warehouse operator; or
(2) the ownership of the grain has been transferred to the
warehouse operator under a written contract of purchase.
(e) The warehouse operator shall report to the department on
forms furnished by the department the following information on scale
weight tickets used in the warehouse operator's business:
(1) the number of scale weight tickets printed;
(2) the serial numbers of the scale weight tickets printed;
and
(3) the printer of the scale weight tickets.
(f) The warehouse operator shall make any records required by
this section or department rule accessible and available for
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 117 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

inspection by the department at any reasonable time.
Renumbered from Sec. 14.022 and amended by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch.
1124, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2001.

