Sec. 58.033. ISSUANCE OF REVENUE BONDS. (a) In addition to
the authority to issue general obligation bonds, the authority may
issue not more than $500 million of revenue bonds for the purpose of
providing money to carry out any purpose of the authority under this
chapter. The authority shall establish and maintain funds and
accounts, in accordance with Subsection (d) of this section, that the
board considers necessary to ensure payment of the bonds and to
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 302 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

provide for the use of the bond proceeds and the implementation of
the program financed. Proceeds of revenue bonds shall be applied in
accordance with the resolution authorizing those bonds:
(1) to provide financial assistance:
(A) to eligible agricultural businesses; and
(B) for programs designed to further rural economic
development;
(2) to pay costs of issuance of those bonds and the
administration of any financial assistance program established by the
authority; and
(3) together with any other available funds, to pay the
principal of or interest on or to discharge or redeem, in whole or in
part, any outstanding bonds issued by the authority.
(b) The authority's revenue bonds are obligations solely of the
authority and are payable solely from funds of the authority that are
pledged to the repayment of the revenue bonds. The authority may not
use, except as provided in Section 58.032, or pledge money in the
Texas agricultural fund to repayment of its revenue bonds. The
authority's bonds are not and do not create or constitute a pledge,
giving, or lending of the faith or credit or taxing power of the
state. Each bond of the authority issued under this section must
contain a statement to the effect that the state is not obligated to
pay the principal of or any premium or interest on the bond, and that
neither the faith or credit nor the taxing power of the state is
pledged, given, or loaned to such a payment.
(c) Revenue bonds of the authority shall be payable as to
principal, interest, and redemption premium, if any, from and secured
by a first lien or a subordinate lien on and pledge of all or any
part of the property, revenues, income, or other resources of the
authority, as specified in the board's resolution authorizing
issuance of those bonds, including mortgages or other interests in
property financed, with the proceeds of such bonds, repayments of
financial assistance, earnings from investments or deposits of the
funds of the authority, fees, charges, and any other amounts or
payments received pursuant to this chapter, and any appropriations,
grants, allocations, subsidies, supplements, guaranties, aid,
contribution, or donations from the state or federal government or
any other person.
(d) The board may make additional covenants with respect to the
bonds and the pledged revenues and may provide for the flow of funds,
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 303 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

the establishment and maintenance and investment of funds, which may
include interest and sinking funds, reserve funds, program funds, and
other funds. Those funds shall be kept and maintained in escrow and
in trust by the comptroller for and on behalf of the authority and
the owners of its revenue bonds, in funds held outside the treasury
pursuant to Chapter 404, Government Code. Those funds shall be used
only as provided by this chapter, and pending their use shall be
invested as provided by any resolution of the authority. Legal title
to those funds shall be in the authority unless or until paid out as
provided by this chapter or by the resolutions authorizing the
authority's bonds. The comptroller, as custodian, shall administer
those funds strictly and only as provided by this chapter and in
those resolutions. The comptroller shall invest the funds in
investments authorized by law for state funds. The state shall take
no action with respect to those funds other than that specified in
this chapter and in those resolutions.
(e) The board may provide in the resolution authorizing any
revenue bonds for the issuance of additional bonds to be equally and
ratably secured by lien on the revenues and receipts, or for the
issuance of subordinate lien bonds.
(f) Revenues of the authority that may be used as a source of
payment for the bonds or to establish a reserve fund to secure the
payment of debt service on the bonds or related obligations of the
authority include repayments of financial assistance, money
appropriated by the legislature to the authority for the purpose of
paying or securing the payment of debt service on the authority's
revenue bonds or related obligations, federal or private money
allocated to financial assistance programs established under this
chapter, amounts paid under any credit agreement for those purposes,
or any other money that the authority pledges or otherwise commits
for those purposes. To the extent that pledged revenues include
amounts appropriated by the legislature, the revenue bonds must state
on their face that those revenues are available to pay debt service
only if appropriated by the legislature for that purpose.
Added by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., 2nd C.S., ch. 32, art. 2, Sec. 1, eff.
Oct. 20, 1987; Acts 1989, 71st Leg., ch. 1247, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1,
1989. Amended by Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 1423, Sec. 2.05, eff.
Sept. 1, 1997; Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 26, Sec. 9, eff. May 2,
2001.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 304 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

