Sec. 74.112. DISCONTINUATION OF PROGRAM AND FOUNDATION AND
DISPOSITION OF FUNDS ON DISCONTINUANCE. (a) On the determination by
the foundation that the boll weevil eradication program has been
completed in all eradication zones established under this subchapter
for boll weevil control and the pink bollworm eradication program has
been completed in any eradication zone established under this chapter
for pink bollworm control, the foundation shall provide notice of
such completion to the commissioner along with a request for
discontinuance of the eradication program and collection of the
assessment. Any such request shall include documentation supporting
the eradication of the boll weevil in all eradication zones
established for boll weevil eradication or pink bollworm in any
eradication zone established for pink bollworm eradication and a plan
for discontinuance of the program and assessment.
(b) The commissioner shall determine whether or not the further
elimination of the boll weevil or pink bollworm is necessary in the
eradication zones and approve or disapprove discontinuance of the
foundation and the plan for dissolution.
(c) On completion of dissolution, the foundation shall file a
final report with the commissioner, including a financial report, and
submit all remaining funds into the trust of the commissioner. Final
books of the foundation shall be filed with the commissioner and are
subject to audit by the department.
(d) The commissioner shall pay from the foundation's remaining
funds all of the foundation's outstanding obligations.
(e) Funds remaining after payment under Subsection (d) of this
section shall be returned to contributing cotton growers on a pro
rata basis.
(f) If 30 percent or more of the cotton growers eligible to
vote within a zone participating in the program present to the
commissioner a petition calling for a referendum of the qualified
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 488 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

voters on the proposition of discontinuing the program, the
commissioner may conduct a referendum for that purpose if:
(1) the debt of the zone has been paid in full; and
(2) the foundation determines, and the commissioner
approves the foundation's determination, that the cotton growers in
the zone have paid more than one-half of the eradication program
funds collected by the foundation and used for the eradication
program in the zone from the date of the program's inception until
the date the petition is presented to the commissioner.
(f-1) The commissioner may not conduct a referendum under
Subsection (f) and shall return the petition if the commissioner
determines that the requirements of Subsection (f)(1) or (2) are not
satisfied.
(g) The commissioner shall give notice of the referendum, the
referendum shall be conducted, and the results shall be declared in
the manner provided by law for the original referendum and election,
with any necessary exceptions provided by rule of the commissioner.
(h) The commissioner shall conduct the referendum within 90
days of the date of filing of the petition, except that no such
referendum may be held within two years of any other referendum in
the eradication zone pertaining to establishing or discontinuing the
eradication zone.
(i) Approval of the proposition is by the same vote as required
in a referendum under Section 74.114(g). If the proposition is
approved, the eradication program is abolished and the eradication
zone ceases to exist on payment of all debts of the eradication zone.
Added by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 8, Sec. 1, eff. June 1, 1993.
Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 227, Sec. 8, eff. Sept. 1, 1995;
Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 463, Sec. 1.14, 2.05, eff. May 30, 1997.
Amended by:
Acts 2013, 83rd Leg., R.S., Ch. 577 (S.B. 818), Sec. 1, eff. June
14, 2013.

