Sec. 76.001. DEFINITIONS. In this chapter:
(1) "Active ingredient" means:
(A) in the case of a pesticide other than a plant
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 509 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

regulator, defoliant, or desiccant, an ingredient that prevents,
destroys, repels, or mitigates a pest;
(B) in the case of a plant regulator, an ingredient
that through physiological action accelerates or retards the rate of
growth or rate of maturation or otherwise alters the behavior of an
ornamental or crop plant or the product of an ornamental or crop
plant;
(C) in the case of a defoliant, an ingredient that
causes leaves or foliage to drop from a plant; or
(D) in the case of a desiccant, an ingredient that
artificially accelerates the drying of plant tissue.
(2) "Animal" means a vertebrate or invertebrate species,
including man, other mammals, birds, fish, and shellfish.
(3) "Antidote" means a practical treatment used in
preventing or lessening ill effects from poisoning, including first
aid.
(4) "Application of a herbicide" means the spreading of a
herbicide on real property having a continuous boundary line.
(5) "Defoliant" means a substance or mixture of substances
intended to cause the leaves or foliage to drop from a plant, with or
without causing abscission.
(6) "Department" means the Department of Agriculture.
(7) "Desiccant" means a substance or mixture of substances
intended to artificially accelerate the drying of plant tissue.
(8) "Device" means an instrument or contrivance, other than
a firearm, that is used to trap, destroy, repel, or mitigate a pest
or other form of plant or animal life, other than man or a bacteria,
virus, or other microorganism on or in living man or other living
animals. The term does not include equipment sold separately from a
pesticide.
(9) "Distribute" means offer for sale, hold for sale, sell,
barter, or supply.
(10) "Environment" includes water, air, land, plants, man,
and other animals living in or on water, air, or land, and the
interrelationships that exist among them.
(11) "Equipment" means any type of ground, water, or aerial
equipment or contrivance employing motorized, mechanical, or
pressurized power and used to apply a pesticide to land or to
anything that may be inhabiting or growing or stored on or in the
land. The term does not include a pressurized hand-sized household
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 510 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

apparatus used to apply a pesticide or any equipment or contrivance
for which the person applying the pesticide is the source of power or
energy used in making the pesticide application.
(12) "FIFRA" means the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and
Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. Section 136 et seq.).
(13) "Fungus" means a non-chlorophyll-bearing thallophyte,
including rust, smut, mildew, mold, yeast, or bacteria, but not
including a non-chlorophyll-bearing thallophyte on or in living man
or other living animals or on or in a processed food, beverage, or
pharmaceutical.
(14) "Inert ingredient" means an ingredient that is not an
active ingredient.
(15) "Insect" means any of the numerous small invertebrate
animals generally having a segmented body and for the most part
belonging to the class Insecta, comprising six-legged, usually winged
forms such as beetles, bugs, bees, and flies. The term includes
allied classes of arthropods, the members of which are wingless and
usually have more than six legs, such as spiders, mites, ticks,
centipedes, and wood lice.
(16) "Label" means the written, printed, or graphic matter
on or attached to a pesticide or device or any of its containers or
wrappers.
(17) "Labeling" means a label or any other written,
printed, or graphic matter prepared by a registrant:
(A) accompanying the pesticide or device at any time;
or
(B) to which reference is made on a label or in
literature accompanying or referring to a pesticide or device, except
accurate, nonmisleading references made to a current official
publication of a federal or state institution or agency authorized by
law to conduct research in the field of pesticides.
(18) "Land" means any land or water area, including
airspace, and any plant, animal, structure, building, contrivance, or
machinery, whether fixed or mobile, appurtenant to or situated on a
land or water area or airspace, including any used for
transportation.
(19) "License use category" means a classification of
pesticide use based on the subject, method, or place of pesticide
application.
(20) "Nematode" means an invertebrate animal of the phylum
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 511 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Nemathelminthes and class Nematoda (an unsegmented roundworm with an
elongated, fusiform, or sac-like body covered with cuticle)
inhabiting soil, water, plants, or plant parts.
(21) "Pesticide" means a substance or mixture of substances
intended to prevent, destroy, repel, or mitigate any pest, or any
substance or mixture of substances intended for use as a plant
regulator, defoliant, or desiccant.
(22) "Plant regulator" means a substance or mixture of
substances intended through physiological action to accelerate or
retard the rate of growth or rate of maturation, or otherwise to
alter the behavior of an ornamental or crop plant or the product of
an ornamental or crop plant, but does not include a substance to the
extent that it is intended as a plant nutrient, trace element,
nutritional chemical, plant inoculant, or soil amendment.
(23) "Registrant" means a person who has registered a
pesticide under this chapter.
(24) "Regulatory agency" means a state agency with
responsibility for certifying applicators under Subchapter E of this
chapter.
(25) "Restricted-use pesticide" means a pesticide
classified as a restricted-use pesticide by the Environmental
Protection Agency.
(26) "Thallophyte" means a non-chlorophyll-bearing plant of
a lower order than mosses and liverworts.
(27) "Weed" means any plant that grows where not wanted.
(28) "Worker protection standard" means the federal worker
protection standard as found in the Code of Federal Regulations, 40
C.F.R. Parts 156 and 170.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1188, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 1369, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1,
1997.

