Sec. 60.063. NOTICE TO PURCHASERS. (a) Except as provided by
Subsection (e), any person who proposes to sell or convey real
property located in a district must first give to the purchaser
written notice that the property is located in the district. The
notice must be given to the prospective purchaser prior to execution
of a binding contract of sale and purchase either separately or as an
addendum or paragraph of a purchase contract. The purchaser shall
sign the notice as evidence of receipt.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 343 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(b) At the closing of the purchase and sale, a separate copy of
the notice with current information about the district and its right
to impose assessments on land within its boundaries, which conveys
with the land, shall be executed by the seller and purchaser and
recorded in the deed records of the county in which the property is
located.
(c) A purchaser or the purchaser's heirs, successors, or
assigns may not maintain any action for damages or maintain any
action against the seller, title insurance company, real estate
brokers, or lienholder, or any agent, representative, or person
acting in their behalf, by reason of the imposition of fees or
assessments by the district authorized by this chapter. Notice is
not required to be given pursuant to this section unless a certified
copy of the order creating the district has been recorded in the real
property records in the county in which the land is located and such
order contains the legal description of the district. A purchaser,
seller, lender, real estate broker, title insurance company, and
title insurance agent may conclusively rely on the recorded certified
copy of the order.
(d) The board shall prescribe the form for notice under this
section.
(e) A seller is not required to give notice under this section
if:
(1) the seller is obligated under a written contract to
furnish to the buyer a title insurance commitment before the contract
closing; and
(2) the purchaser is entitled under the contract to
terminate the contract because the property is located in a district.
Added by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1393, Sec. 1, eff. June 16, 2001.
Amended by Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 369, Sec. 6, eff. Sept. 1, 2003;
Acts 2003, 78th Leg., ch. 746, Sec. 2, eff. Sept. 1, 2003.

