Sec. 14.022. LICENSING OF MULTIPLE WAREHOUSES. (a) In this
section:
(1) "Combination" means a group of two or more public grain
warehouses or facilities operated under a single set of complete
records. For purposes of this chapter, a combination is treated as
if it were a single public grain warehouse.
(2) "Facility" means two or more public grain warehouses
located in close proximity on the same general location. For
purposes of this chapter, and except when part of a combination, a
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 103 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

facility is treated as if it were a single public grain warehouse.
(b) A warehouse operator may operate all public grain
warehouses or facilities within an area no larger than 60 miles in
diameter as a combination if a single license covering the
combination is obtained from the department and:
(1) a single recordkeeping system covering only warehouses
within the combination is maintained by the warehouse operator;
(2) a single, unique set of sequentially numbered receipts
containing all information required by department rule and bearing
the name of the license holder and a unique combination name, but not
bearing individual warehouse or facility names, is used for the
combination;
(3) for each scale operated by the warehouse operator, the
warehouse operator issues and maintains a single, unique set of
sequentially numbered scale weight tickets containing all information
required by department rule and bearing the name of the license
holder and a unique name identifying the facility where the scale is
located;
(4) a single daily position report covering all storage
obligations of the combination and only the combination, including
company-owned grain, and containing all information required by
department rule is maintained;
(5) all original warehouse operator records, except for
scale weight tickets, relating to transactions or storage obligations
involving the combination are maintained at a single location and
separate from all other businesses and separately licensed warehouse
operations of the warehouse operator; and
(6) except as provided by department rule, a single unique
bond or bond substitute is used to cover the combination.
(c) Except as permitted while operating a combination, a
warehouse operator may not combine or intermingle assets, storage
obligations, liabilities of any kind, records or record entries,
contractual obligations, other transactions of any kind, or any other
business or operating information from different warehouses or
businesses owned, managed, or operated by the warehouse operator.
Each licensed combination or individually licensed facility shall be
operated as a separate entity under a single, unique name and, except
as provided by department rule, shall be covered by a single,
separate bond or bond substitute.

Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 104 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Amended by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1124, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1,
2001.

