Sec. 74.0032. HOSTABLE COTTON FEE. (a) The department shall
establish and collect a hostable cotton fee for fields in which
hostable cotton stalks, hostable volunteer cotton, or other hostable
noncommercial cotton remains past the stalk destruction deadline set
for the applicable pest management zone under Section 74.0031. A fee
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 466 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

under this section shall be expressed in terms of dollars per acre,
per week in which the stalks, volunteer cotton, or other
noncommercial cotton remains in the field. The department shall
establish a procedure to notify a cotton grower that a fee is due the
department under this section.
(b) If adverse weather conditions or other good cause exists,
the Texas Boll Weevil Eradication Foundation may request that the
department grant an extension of the cotton stalk destruction
deadline for any specified part of the pest management zone or for
the entire pest management zone. A request under this subsection
must be made within the period specified by department rule. A field
is not subject to a hostable cotton fee if the department grants an
extension of the deadline. The Texas Boll Weevil Eradication
Foundation shall submit to the department an estimate of the amount
by which an extension under this subsection will increase the cost of
administering the boll weevil eradication program.
(c) If the Texas Boll Weevil Eradication Foundation does not
request an extension, or if the department denies a request for an
extension of the cotton stalk destruction deadline for a specified
part of a pest management zone, a cotton grower may apply for an
individual extension of the deadline. A request under this
subsection must be made within the period specified by department
rule.
(d) The Texas Boll Weevil Eradication Foundation shall submit
to the department an estimate of the amount by which any extension of
a stalk destruction deadline that is granted under Subsection (c)
will increase the cost of administering the boll weevil eradication
program.
(e) Any hostable cotton or hostable cotton stalks that remain
in a field after the cotton stalk destruction deadline or any
extension of the stalk destruction deadline has passed are subject to
the hostable cotton fee established under Subsection (a). Any
hostable cotton or hostable cotton stalks that remain in a field for
more than 30 days after the stalk destruction deadline or any
extension of the deadline are subject to 150 percent of the hostable
cotton fee established under Subsection (a).
(f) A hostable cotton fee shall be sent to the comptroller and
may be appropriated only for the purpose of treating hostable cotton
or for other expenses related to boll weevil eradication. The
department may contract with the Texas Boll Weevil Eradication
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 467 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Foundation or its successor entity for the treatment, control, or
monitoring activities funded from the account.
(g) Unless the fee is paid on or before the 45th day after the
date the department gives notice to a cotton grower that a hostable
cotton fee is due, the department may destroy any cotton or cotton
stalks that remain in the field, as provided by Section 74.004.
(h) The department shall adopt rules to administer this
section.
Added by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 178 (H.B. 1580), Sec. 2, eff.
May 27, 2009.
Amended by:
Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 83 (S.B. 378), Sec. 1, eff.
September 1, 2011.
Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 848 (S.B. 703), Sec. 20, eff.
September 1, 2021.

