Sec. 74.101. FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF POLICY. (a) It is
hereby found and declared that:
(1) the insects Anthonomus grandis Boheman, known as the
boll weevil, and Pectinophora gossypiella, known as the pink
bollworm, are public nuisances and a menace to the cotton industry,
and their eradication is a public necessity;
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 473 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(2) because of the differences in soil conditions, growing
seasons, farming techniques, and climate conditions among several
areas in the state where cotton is grown, the eradication and
suppression of the nuisance can best be accomplished by dividing the
cotton-growing areas into separate zones so that integrated pest
management programs may be developed for each zone;
(3) there is a need for a quasi-governmental entity acting
under the supervision and control of the commissioner whose members
are actual cotton growers who would be represented on the board of
the entity by directors elected by them to manage eradication and
suppression programs and to furnish expertise in the field of insect
control and eradication, because such an entity would enhance the
interest and participation of cotton growers in the program;
(4) because of the progress made in eradication,
investments made by cotton growers in certain areas, the potential
injustice to certain cotton growers who have made such investments,
and the stage of development of the cotton crops in the statutory
eradication zones, an urgent public necessity exists to validate and
ratify the assessments, agreements, and obligations of the Texas Boll
Weevil Eradication Foundation, Inc., made or incurred by the
foundation and related to certain statutory zones;
(5) cotton growers, in partnership with the state and
federal governments, have made significant investments toward the
eradication of these pests in this state;
(6) it is essential to the well-being of the cotton
industry and the agricultural economy of this state that the
investments of the cotton growers and the state and federal
governments be protected; and
(7) the establishment of a maintenance program to be
carried out by the foundation under the supervision of the department
is required to protect the investments in eradication.
(b) It is the intent of the legislature that the program of
eradication and suppression be carried out with the best available
integrated pest management techniques.
(c) The department may recover costs for administration of this
subchapter.
Added by Acts 1993, 73rd Leg., ch. 8, Sec. 1, eff. June 1, 1993.
Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 227, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1995;
Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 463, Sec. 1.01, eff. May 30, 1997.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 474 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Amended by:
Acts 2005, 79th Leg., Ch. 119 (S.B. 1428), Sec. 1, eff. September
1, 2005.

