Sec. 76.112. PRIVATE APPLICATOR. (a) A person is a private
applicator if the person uses or supervises the use of a restricteduse or state-limited-use pesticide or regulated herbicide for the
purpose of producing an agricultural commodity:
(1) on property owned or rented by the person or the
person's employer or under the person's general control; or
(2) on the property of another person if applied without
compensation other than the trading of personal services, or services
related to agricultural production, including the use of equipment,
between producers of agricultural commodities.
(b) A private applicator is required to be either licensed or
certified to use restricted-use or state-limited-use pesticides or
regulated herbicides.
(c) An employee qualifies as a private applicator under
Subsection (a)(1) of this section only if he is employed to perform
other duties related to agricultural production and provide labor for
the pesticide application but does not provide the necessary
equipment or pesticide.
(d) A private applicator who is required to be licensed by
Section 76.105 of this code shall apply to the department for a
private applicator license.
(e) A person shall apply for an original or renewal private
applicator license on forms prescribed by the department. The
application shall include information as required by department rule
and must be accompanied by a fee, as fixed by the department.
(f) The department may not issue an original private applicator
license before the applicant has attended a training course conducted
by the Texas Agricultural Extension Service or another training
course approved by the department. The department shall approve
appropriate training courses developed under the coordination of the
Texas Agricultural Extension Service and to be conducted by other
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 540 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

governmental agencies or nongovernmental entities. The training
course shall cover the use, effects, and risks of restricted-use and
state-limited-use pesticides or regulated herbicides.
(g) The department may not issue a private applicator license
if the applicant has had a license issued under this subchapter
revoked within the last two years.
(h) An individual to whom a private applicator license is
issued is authorized to purchase, use, and supervise the use of
restricted-use and state-limited-use pesticides or regulated
herbicides in all license use categories and subcategories for the
purpose of producing an agricultural commodity on property described
by Subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.
(i) As a condition to issuance of a private applicator license,
an applicant located outside this state shall file with the
department a written instrument designating a resident agent for
service of process in actions taken in administration and enforcement
of this chapter. Instead of designating a resident agent, the
applicant may designate in writing the secretary of state as the
recipient of service of process for the applicant in this state.
(j) For purposes of this chapter, a certified private
applicator is a private applicator who has been previously certified
under the department's voluntary certification program and who holds
a private applicator certificate dated prior to January 10, 1989. A
certified private applicator is authorized to use restricted-use and
state-limited-use pesticides or regulated herbicides in all license
use categories and subcategories for the purpose of producing an
agricultural commodity on property described by Subsection (a)(1) or
(a)(2) of this section. A certified private applicator may not
supervise the use of restricted-use and state-limited-use pesticides
or regulated herbicides.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1200, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 2590, ch. 693, Sec. 7, eff. Sept.
1, 1981; Acts 1989, 71st Leg., ch. 230, Sec. 96, eff. Sept. 1, 1989;
Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 419, Sec. 2.40, eff. Sept. 1, 1995; Acts
1997, 75th Leg., ch. 1369, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1997.

