Sec. 63.001. DEFINITIONS. In this chapter:
(1) "Board" means the board of regents of The Texas A&M
University System.
(2) "Brand" means the term, design, trademark, or other
specific designation under which a commercial fertilizer is
distributed.
(3) "Bulk" means any lot of commercial fertilizer that is
not in a closed container at the time it passes to the possession of
the consumer and includes that fertilizer at any stage of
distribution.
(4) "Container" means a bag, box, carton, bottle, object,
barrel, package, apparatus, device, appliance, or other item of any
capacity into which a commercial fertilizer is packed, poured,
stored, or placed for handling, transporting, or distributing.
(5) "Customer-formula fertilizer" means a mixture of
commercial fertilizers or fertilizer materials and other agricultural
products such as seed and pesticides, any part of which is furnished
by the person who processed, mixed, blended, or prepared the mixture
and which is formulated according to the specific instructions of the
purchaser.
(6) "Director" means the director of the Texas Agricultural
Experiment Station.
(7) "Distribute" means sell, offer for sale, expose for
sale, consign for sale, barter, exchange, transfer possession or
title, or otherwise supply.
(8) "Fertilizer material" means a solid or nonsolid
substance or compound that contains an essential plant nutrient
element in a form available to plants and is used primarily for its
essential plant nutrient element content in promoting or stimulating
growth of a plant or improving the quality of a crop or for
compounding a mixed fertilizer. The term does not include animal
manure, plant remains, or a mixture of those substances, for which no
specific nutrient analysis claim indicates guaranteed nutrient
levels.
(9) "Grade" means the percentages stated in whole numbers
of total nitrogen, available phosphoric acid (P2O5), and soluble
potash (K2O) guaranteed in a fertilizer.
(10) "Label" means a display of written, printed, or
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 382 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

graphic matter on or affixed to a container or on an invoice or
delivery slip.
(11) "Mixed fertilizer" means a solid or nonsolid product
that results from the combination, mixture, or simultaneous
application of two or more fertilizer materials by a manufacturer,
processor, mixer, or contractor. The term may include a specialty
fertilizer or manipulated manure, but does not include animal manure,
plant remains, or a mixture of those substances, for which no
specific nutrient analysis claim indicates guaranteed nutrient
levels.
(12) "Manipulated manure" means a substance composed of
animal manure, plant remains, or a mixture of those substances, for
which a specific nutrient analysis claim indicates guaranteed
nutrient levels.
(13) "Official sample" means a sample taken by the service
and designated as official by the service.
(14) "Registrant" means a person who registers a commercial
fertilizer under this chapter.
(15) "Service" means the Texas Feed and Fertilizer Control
Service.
(16) "Specialty fertilizer" means a fertilizer distributed
primarily for nonfarm use, including use on or in home gardens,
lawns, shrubbery, flowers, golf courses, municipal parks, cemeteries,
greenhouses, or nurseries. The term does not include animal manure,
plant remains, or a mixture of those substances, for which no
specific nutrient analysis claim indicates guaranteed nutrient
levels.
(17) "Ton" means a net weight of 2,000 pounds avoirdupois
or 1,000 kilograms metric.
(18) "Weight" means the net weight of a container of
commercial fertilizer expressed in either the avoirdupois or metric
system.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1140, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1983, 68th Leg., p. 1837, ch. 349, art. 1, Sec. 1,
eff. Sept. 1, 1983.
Amended by:
Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 779 (H.B. 1969), Sec. 1, eff.
September 1, 2011.

Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 383 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

