Sec. 201.073. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS. (a) Except as provided
for the initial election of directors, the persons who are eligible
voters and own land in a conservation district are entitled to elect
the directors for the district. For that purpose, the eligible
voters shall meet each year on a date and at a time and place
designated by the existing board of directors. The directors shall
designate for the election a date that is after September 30 and
before October 16. Before July 15 of each year, the directors shall
designate a date, time, and place for that year's election of
directors.
(b) To be eligible for election under this section, an
individual must file a written notice of the individual's candidacy.
The individual must file the notice:
(1) during established business hours in the month of
August at a location designated by the district; and
(2) in accordance with district rules.
(c) The district shall post a notice stating the requirements
of Subsection (b) in a prominent public place.
(d) If only one individual files a notice of candidacy for a
director's office during the period specified by Subsection (b)(1):
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1039 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(1)
(2)

an election to fill that position is not required; and
on the established election date, the directors shall:
(A) declare the single candidate as the director for
that office; and
(B) certify the selection of the individual as director
in the manner provided by Subsection (f) for an elected director.
(e) If more than one individual files a notice of candidacy for
a director's office during the period specified by Subsection (b)(1),
the election shall be held at a meeting of eligible voters scheduled
under Subsection (a). The district shall print ballots with the
names of the candidates for each director's office to be filled. The
district by rule shall provide for allowing eligible voters by
personal appearance to cast votes on printed ballots at a location
designated by the district instead of at the meeting. The rules must
provide for votes to be accepted at the designated location during
established business hours for a period beginning on the 17th day
before the date of the meeting and continuing through the fourth day
before the date of the meeting, including at least one Saturday
during that period. If, because of the date scheduled for the
meeting, it is not possible to begin early voting by personal
appearance on the prescribed date, the early voting period shall
begin on the earliest practicable date as set by the district. Each
eligible voter present at the scheduled meeting shall cast a vote by
ballots printed under this subsection. If after tabulation by the
district of the votes cast before the meeting at the designated
location and the votes cast at the meeting no nominee has received a
majority of the votes, the two candidates receiving the largest
number of votes shall be voted on in a second ballot, and the
candidate receiving the largest number of votes among those cast
before the meeting at the designated location and those cast at the
meeting in the second ballot is elected. The district by rule shall
provide for certifying eligible voters voting at the designated
location and at the meeting.
(f) The directors shall:
(1) record the proceedings of the meeting; and
(2) not later than the fifth day after the date of the
election, certify to the state board the name and the proper address
of the person elected.
(g) The Election Code does not apply to elections under this
section.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1040 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1470, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1985, 69th Leg., ch. 117, Sec. 11, eff. Sept. 1,
1985; Acts 1985, 69th Leg., ch. 611, Sec. 7, eff. Sept. 1, 1985;
Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1095, Sec. 13, eff. Sept. 1, 2001; Acts
2003, 78th Leg., ch. 1040, Sec. 1, eff. June 20, 2003.

