Sec. 63.094. INDEPENDENT ANALYSIS OF SAMPLE. (a) If the
service finds through chemical analysis or other method that a
commercial fertilizer is in violation of a provision of this chapter,
the service shall notify the manufacturer or other person who caused
the fertilizer to be distributed. The notice must be in writing and
give full details of the findings of the service.
(b) After receiving a notice under Subsection (a) of this
section, the manufacturer or other person who caused the fertilizer
to be distributed may request that the service submit portions of the
sample analyzed to other chemists for independent analysis. After
receiving a request, the service shall submit two portions of the
sample analyzed to two qualified chemists selected by the service.
If requested, the service shall also submit one portion of the sample
to the person requesting independent analysis. A request under this
subsection must be filed with the service before the 16th day
following the day on which notice is given.
(c) Each of the chemists selected by the service under
Subsection (b) of this section shall analyze the portion of the
sample and certify findings to the service under oath. The findings
shall be prepared in duplicate and the service shall forward one copy
of each chemist's findings to the person who requested independent
analysis.
(d) The three chemical analyses obtained under this section may
be considered in determining whether a violation of this chapter has
occurred.
(e) Except as provided by this subsection, the person
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 396 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

requesting independent analysis under this section shall pay the
costs of the analysis. If as a result of the independent analysis
the service determines that a violation has not occurred, the service
shall pay the costs of the analysis.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1147, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1983, 68th Leg., p. 1852, ch. 349, art. 1, Sec. 8,
eff. Sept. 1, 1983.

