Sec. 14.001. DEFINITIONS. (a) In this chapter:
(1) "Depositor" means a person who:
(A) delivers grain to a public grain warehouse for
storing of the grain for hire, handling of the grain for hire, or
shipping of the grain for hire;
(B) is the owner or legal holder of an outstanding
receipt for grain stored in the public grain warehouse issuing the
receipt; or
(C) is lawfully entitled to possession of grain stored
in a public grain warehouse.
(2) "Grain" means wheat, grain sorghum, corn, oats, barley,
rye, soybeans, or any other grain, peas, or beans for which federal
grain standards are established.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 95 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(3)

"Open storage grain" means grain that:
(A) is received for storage by a public grain warehouse
located in this state;
(B) is not covered by a negotiable warehouse receipt;
and
(C) is not owned by the lessee, owner, or operator of
the warehouse in which it is stored.
(4) "Public grain warehouse" means a building, bin, or
similar structure located in this state and used for:
(A) the storing of grain for hire, shipping of grain
for hire, or handling of grain for hire; or
(B) the purchasing and selling of grain, including
grain on which payment is deferred.
(5) "Receipt" means a negotiable Texas grain warehouse
receipt issued by a warehouse operator licensed under this chapter.
(6) "License" includes a renewal of or an amendment to a
license.
(7) "Scale weight ticket" means a load slip other than a
receipt given to a depositor or other person by a warehouse operator
licensed under this chapter on:
(A) initial delivery of the grain to the warehouse; or
(B) weighing of the grain on the grain warehouse
operator's scale, regardless of the destination of the grain.
(8) "Receipted grain" means grain that is stored in a
public grain warehouse and for which a Texas grain warehouse receipt
has been issued and has not been canceled.
(9) "Warehouse operator" means a person engaged in the
business of operating a public grain warehouse.
(b) For purposes of this chapter, the term "public grain
warehouse" as defined by Subsection (a)(4) does not include railcars,
trucks, boats, or other vehicles when used to transport grain.
(c) For purposes of this chapter, in those sections that
require the warehouse operator to cooperate with or provide
information to the department or issue documents or deliver grain to
customers of the warehouse operator and in those sections that
require notice to be provided to the warehouse operator by the
department, the term "warehouse operator" includes all employees,
agents, or other persons authorized by the warehouse operator to
issue receipts or scale weight tickets or sign contracts or other
agreements.
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 96 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1046, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch. 1124, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1,
2001.

SUBCHAPTER B. GENERAL PROVISIONS
LIMITATION OF CHAPTER. This chapter does not

