Sec. 164.022. HEARING. (a) Not later than the fifth day
following the day on which a person receives an order to treat cattle
or sheep, the person may file with the commission or the presiding
officer of the commission a written affidavit that:
(1) denies that the animals are subject to being treated
under this chapter, or states that, for good and sufficient reason
set out in the affidavit, the person is entitled to have the order
rescinded or the treatment postponed; and
(2) requests that the commission withhold enforcement of
the order and grant a hearing on the matter or investigate the matter
as necessary to determine the correctness of the statement contained
in the affidavit.
(b) Not later than the fifth day following the day on which the
commission receives an affidavit under Subsection (a) of this
section, the commission shall, if desired by the affiant, grant the
affiant a hearing in the office of the presiding officer. The
commission shall give the affiant notice of the hearing by telegram
or registered mail and shall hold the hearing not earlier than the
fourth day following the day of giving that notice.
(c) The commission shall consider the affidavit at the hearing
and shall, in person or by agent, investigate the matter as the
commission considers necessary.
(d) If the commission finds that the statement in the affidavit
is correct, the commission shall rescind the order or postpone the
treatment until a time that the commission considers proper. If the
commission finds that the statement in the affidavit is not correct,
the commission shall enforce the order on the date and at the time
designated in the order.
(e) Following a hearing, the commission shall deliver its
written findings to the affiant not later than the fourth day before
the date and time that the order requires the animals to be treated.
(f) A person who is dissatisfied with the findings of the
commission under this section may apply to a court of proper venue
and jurisdiction for an injunction or other relief.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1422, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 554, Sec. 31, eff. Sept. 1,
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 939 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

1995.
Amended by:
Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 849 (S.B. 705), Sec. 23, eff.
September 1, 2021.

