Sec. 201.129. BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. (a) If the directors of a
conservation district adopt an ordinance prescribing land-use
regulations, the directors by ordinance shall provide for the
establishment of a board of adjustment organized in accordance with
this section.
(b) A board of adjustment is composed of three members
appointed by the state board with the advice and approval of the
directors of the conservation district for which they are appointed.
(c) Except as provided for the initial board, members of a
board of adjustment serve for staggered terms of two years with the
terms of one or two members expiring every other year. In making
initial appointments to a board of adjustment, the state board shall
designate one or two members to serve a term of one year with the
remaining member or members serving for a term of two years.
(d) Following notice and a hearing, a member of a board of
adjustment may be removed, but only for neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office. The state board and the directors of the
conservation district for which the board is appointed shall conduct
removal hearings jointly.
(e) A vacancy on a board of adjustment is filled for the
unexpired term in the manner provided for the original appointment.
(f) A member of the state board or a director of the
conservation district for which a board of adjustment is appointed is
ineligible for appointment to the board of adjustment for that
conservation district during the member's or director's tenure in
office.
(g) Members of a board of adjustment are entitled to
compensation for services of $3 a day for time spent on work of the
board. The state board shall pay that compensation from
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 1054 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

appropriations made for that purpose for not more than 10 days each
year.
(h) The directors of the conservation district for which the
board of adjustment is appointed shall pay the necessary
administrative and other expenses of operation incurred by the board
on presentation of a certificate of the chairman of the board of
adjustment.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1478, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.

