Sec. 76.041. REGISTRATION REQUIRED. (a) Except as provided by
Subsection (b), (c), (d), or (e) of this section, before a pesticide
is distributed in this state or is delivered for transportation or is
transported in intrastate commerce or between points within this
state through a point outside the state, it must be registered with
the department. The manufacturer or other person whose name appears
on the label of the pesticide shall register the pesticide.
(b) Registration is not required for the transportation of a
pesticide from one plant or warehouse to another plant or warehouse
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 519 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

operated by the same person if the pesticide is used solely at the
second plant or warehouse as a constituent of a pesticide that is
registered under this chapter.
(c) Registration is not required for a pesticide that is not
for use in this state and is being manufactured, transported, or
distributed for use only outside of this state.
(d) Registration is not required for a chemical compound being
used only to develop plot data as to the possible pesticidal action
of the chemical.
(e) Unless otherwise required by department rule, registration
is not required for a pesticide that is exempt from registration with
the United States Environmental Protection Agency under federal law.
(f) The Texas Feed and Fertilizer Control Service may not
register under Chapter 63 a fertilizer that contains a pesticide that
must be registered with the department under this chapter unless the
constituent pesticide is first registered with the department. The
Texas Feed and Fertilizer Control Service shall consult with the
department about the current registration status of a pesticide
before registering any fertilizer mix containing that pesticide under
Chapter 63. The department shall notify the Texas Feed and
Fertilizer Control Service of any changes to a pesticide
registration.
(g) A pesticide that has been registered with the department
must continue to be registered as long as the pesticide remains in
the channels of trade in this state. The registrant shall ensure
that the pesticide continues to be registered.
(h) If the department issues a stop use, stop distribution, or
removal order because the pesticide is not registered with the
department, the registrant shall take any necessary action to remedy
the situation, including reimbursing a person who is subject to the
order for the person's costs in complying with the order.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1192, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1995, 74th Leg., ch. 419, Sec. 6.02, eff. Sept. 1,
1995; Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 1369, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1997.

