Sec. 61.004. LABELING OF AGRICULTURAL SEED. (a) Except as
otherwise provided by this section, each container of agricultural
seed that is sold or offered or exposed for sale in this state shall
bear or have attached in a conspicuous place a plainly written or
printed label in English that contains the following information
relating to the contents of the container:
(1) the name of the kind or the kind and variety of each
agricultural seed component present in excess of five percent of the
whole, and the percentage by weight of each;
(2) the lot number or other lot identification;
(3) for each named agricultural seed:
(A) the percentage of germination, exclusive of hard
seed, as determined by rule of the department;
(B) the percentage of hard seed, if present; and
(C) the calendar month and year that the test was
completed to determine the percentage of germination and hard seed;
(4) the percentage by weight of agricultural seeds other
than those named on the label;
(5) the origin, if known, of all agricultural seeds;
(6) the percentage by weight of all weed seeds;
(7) the name and number per pound of each noxious weed
seed;
(8) the percentage by weight of inert matter;
(9) the net weight; and
(10) the name and address of the person who labeled the
seed or who sells or offers or exposes the seed for sale.
(b) If in accordance with the rules of the department the kind
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 359 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

of seed in a container is generally labeled by variety but the label
does not state the variety, the label shall show the name of the kind
and be printed with: "Variety Not Stated." The label on hybrid seed
shall state that the seed is hybrid. A person may not use the word
"type" in any labeling in connection with the name of an agricultural
seed variety.
(c) If the origin of the seed is unknown, the label shall state
that the origin is unknown.
(d) The noxious weed content shall be determined according to
the method prescribed under Section 61.008 of this code and the
stated content is subject to the tolerances established under that
section.
(e) Following the statement of germination and hard seed, a
label may show a statement of total germination and hard seed.
(f) If, in accordance with rules of the department, a container
of seed is sold on a pure live seed basis, the label on the container
must contain the information required by Subsection (a) of this
section, except:
(1) the label need not show:
(A) the percentage by weight of each agricultural seed
component, as required by Subdivision (1) of Subsection (a) of this
section; or
(B) the percentage by weight of inert matter, as
required by Subdivision (8) of Subsection (a) of this section; and
(2) the label must show for each named agricultural seed,
instead of the information required by Subdivision (3) of Subsection
(a) of this section:
(A) the percentage of pure live seed, determined in
accordance with rules of the department; and
(B) the calendar month and year in which the test
determining the percentage of pure live seed was completed.
(g) The department by rule may provide that a label show an
expiration date in lieu of the calendar month and year of a
germination or pure live seed test.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1127, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1985, 69th Leg., ch. 151, Sec. 1, eff. May 24, 1985.

