Sec. 14.065. RECOVERY ON BOND; LIABILITY OF WAREHOUSE
OPERATOR. (a) If no action on the bond or cash, certificate of
deposit, or letter of credit deposited in lieu of a bond of a
warehouse operator is begun before the 31st day after the date of a
written demand to the department, a depositor has a right of action
on the bond or cash, certificate of deposit, or letter of credit
deposited in lieu of a bond for recovery of damages suffered by the
depositor as a result of the failure of the warehouse operator to
comply with any condition of the bond, or if cash, a certificate of
deposit, or a letter of credit is deposited in lieu of a bond,
failure to comply with any obligation of the warehouse operator under
this chapter that would have been covered by a bond.
(b) Recovery on a bond shall be prorated if claims exceed
liability on a bond, but a depositor suing on a bond is not required
to join other depositors in a suit. The burden of establishing
proration is on the surety as a matter of defense or is on the
department as intervenor on behalf of other depositors.
(c) A warehouse operator is liable for damages for loss of or
injury to grain caused by the warehouse operator's failure to
exercise the care that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in
regard to the grain under similar circumstances, but, unless
otherwise agreed, a warehouse operator is not liable for damages to
grain that could not have been avoided through the exercise of that
care.
(d) A person who files an action on a bond under this section
must serve notice of the suit on the department in the same manner
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 121 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

and within the same period as for the defendant or surety who issued
the bond.
(e) On authentication by the department, the court shall accept
into evidence as a public record any report prepared by the
department under this chapter that describes potential bond claims by
other depositors, regardless of whether any of those depositors are
joined in the suit.
(f) A person is prohibited from filing a claim on an invalid
receipt.
(g) An action under this section must be brought not later than
the second anniversary of the date of expiration of the public grain
warehouse license in effect at the time the claim arose.
(h) The department by rule may set a limitations period for
filing claims with the department on a bond filed with the department
or cash, a certificate of deposit, or a letter of credit deposited
with the department in lieu of a bond.
Renumbered from Sec. 14.010 and amended by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch.
1124, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2001.

