Sec. 102.157. TERMS OF AGREEMENT OR LICENSE. (a) Any
marketing agreement executed or license issued may:
(1) limit or provide a method for limiting the total
quantity of any grade, variety, size, or quality of citrus fruit that
may be produced during one or more specified periods and marketed in
or transported to a market in intrastate commerce;
(2) allot or provide a method for allotting the amount of
citrus fruit or any grade, variety, size, or quality of citrus fruit
that each handler may market in intrastate commerce;
(3) determine or provide a method for determining the
existence and extent of a surplus of a citrus fruit or of any grade,
variety, size, or quality of a citrus fruit, provide for the control
and disposition of that surplus in a manner that does not burden or
obstruct interstate or foreign commerce, and equalize the burden of a
surplus elimination or control among the producers and handlers of
the citrus fruit;
(4) provide for administrative committees under Section
102.158 of this code; and
(5) provide other terms or conditions incidental to and
consistent with this section.
(b) If the marketing agreement or license allots or provides a
method for allotting the amount of a citrus fruit that a handler may
handle, the marketing agreement or license must:
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 679 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(1)
following:

be under a uniform rule based on one or both of the

(A) the amount of the citrus fruit or grade, variety,
size, or quality of the citrus fruit that each handler has available
for current shipment; and
(B) the amount shipped by each handler in a prior
representative period, as determined by the department; and
(2) equitably apportion among all the handlers the total
quantity of the citrus fruit or any grade, variety, size, or quality
of the citrus fruit to be marketed in or transported to markets in
intrastate commerce.
(c) A marketing agreement or license may include one or more of
the terms and conditions under Subsection (a) of this section, but
may not include others.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1269, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.

