Sec. 52.052. CONTENTS. The bylaws may provide for one or more
of the following:
(1) the time, place, and manner of calling and conducting
meetings of the association;
(2) the number and qualifications of the members;
(3) the number of members constituting a quorum;
(4) the right of members to vote by proxy, mail, or both
and the conditions, method, and effects of the vote;
(5) the method by which a member that is an association may
cast its vote;
(6) the number of directors constituting a quorum;
(7) the qualifications, compensation, duties, and terms of
directors and officers;
(8) the time of the election of directors and officers and
the method of giving notice of the election;
(9) the penalties for violations of the bylaws;
(10) the amount of entrance, organization, and membership
fees, if any, the method of collecting the fees, and the purposes for
which the association must use the fees;
(11) the amount, if any, that each member must pay for the
association's cost of conducting business;
(12) the amount that each member is required to pay for
services rendered to the member by the association, the time of
payment, and the method of collecting the payment;
(13) the marketing contract between the association and its
members;
(14) the requirements for ownership of common stock;
(15) the time and method by which a member may withdraw
from the association or may assign or transfer common stock;
(16) the method of assignment and transfer of a member's
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 264 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

interest or shares of common stock;
(17) the time and conditions on which membership ceases;
(18) the automatic suspension of a member's rights if the
member ceases to be eligible for membership;
(19) the method and effect of expulsion of a member;
(20) the purchase by the association of a member's interest
on the death, withdrawal, or expulsion of the member, on forfeiture
of a membership, or at the option of the association; and
(21) the method by which the value of a member's interest
is determined by conclusive appraisal by the board of directors.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1108, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.

SUBCHAPTER E. MEMBERSHIP CERTIFICATES AND STOCK
