Sec. 58.072. YOUNG FARMER INTEREST RATE REDUCTION PROGRAM. (a)
The board shall establish a young farmer interest rate reduction
program to promote the creation and expansion of agricultural
businesses by young people in this state.
(b) To be eligible to participate in the young farmer interest
rate reduction program, an applicant must be at least 18 years of age
but younger than 46 years of age.
(c) The board shall approve or disapprove any and all
applications under this subchapter, provided that the board may
delegate this authority to the commissioner.
(d) The board shall adopt rules for the loan portion of the
young farmer interest rate reduction program.
(e) In order to participate in the young farmer interest rate
reduction program, an eligible lending institution may solicit loan
applications from eligible applicants.
(f) After reviewing an application and determining that the
applicant is eligible and creditworthy, the eligible lending
institution shall send the application for a linked deposit loan to
the administrator of the authority.
(g) The eligible lending institution shall certify the interest
rate applicable to the specific eligible applicant and attach it to
the application sent to the administrator of the authority.
(h) After reviewing each loan application under this
subchapter, the board or the commissioner shall recommend to the
comptroller the acceptance or rejection of the application.
(i) After acceptance of the application, the comptroller shall
place a linked deposit with the applicable eligible lending
institution for the period the comptroller considers appropriate.
The comptroller may not place a deposit for a period extending beyond
the state fiscal biennium in which it is placed. Subject to the
limitation described by Section 58.075, the comptroller may place
time deposits at an interest rate described by Section 58.071(2).
(j) Before the placing of a linked deposit, the eligible
lending institution and the state, represented by the comptroller,
shall enter into a written deposit agreement containing the
conditions on which the linked deposit is made.
(k) If a lending institution holding linked deposits ceases to
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 315 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

be either a state depository or a Farm Credit System institution
headquartered in this state, the comptroller may withdraw the linked
deposits.
(l) The board may adopt rules that create a procedure for
determining priorities for loans granted under this subchapter. Each
rule adopted must state the policy objective of the rule.
(m) A lending institution is not ineligible to participate in
the young farmer interest rate reduction program solely because a
member of the board is also an officer, director, or employee of the
lending institution, provided that a board member shall recuse
himself or herself from any action taken by the board on an
application involving a lending institution by which the board member
is employed or for which the board member serves as an officer or
director.
(n) Linked deposits under the young farmer interest rate
reduction program shall be funded from the Texas agricultural fund.
Added by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 506 (S.B. 1016), Sec. 1.16,
eff. September 1, 2009.

