Sec. 14.082. DISCOVERY OF SHORTAGE; REFUSAL OF INSPECTION.
(a) If the department determines that a warehouse operator does not
possess sufficient grain to cover outstanding receipts and
outstanding scale weight tickets issued or assumed by the warehouse
operator, or if a warehouse operator refuses or is unable to submit
records or property for lawful inspection or the department is unable
to conduct an inspection of the warehouse due to the condition of the
warehouse or grain stored in the warehouse, the department may seal
the warehouse to prevent delivery or receipt of grain except as
authorized by the department, suspend the license of the warehouse
operator, and give notice to the warehouse operator requiring the
warehouse operator to submit records or property for lawful
inspection, to correct any condition interfering with the
department's inspection of the warehouse or grain, or to cover a
shortage of a particular type of grain by:
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 127 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(1) storing to the credit of or delivering to each
depositor affected by the shortage grain of the same type and quality
that is stored at any of the warehouse operator's licensed warehouses
in this state and that has been designated as company-owned grain by
the warehouse operator;
(2) purchasing and storing to the credit of or delivering
to each depositor affected by the shortage grain of the same type and
quality;
(3) selling company-owned grain of a different type and
paying to each depositor affected by the shortage, on a pro rata
basis, the market value of the depositor's grain as determined on the
day the shortage was discovered by the department; or
(4) using any combination of the remedies described by
Subdivisions (1)-(3) or another fair and reasonable method for
meeting the shortage approved by the department.
(b) A warehouse operator shall comply with the requirements of
a notice issued under Subsection (a) within 24 hours of notification
by the department or within a longer time allowed by the department.
If the warehouse operator fails to comply, the department may
petition the district court for the county where the warehouse
operator's principal place of business is located, as shown by the
license application, for a court order authorizing the department to
take possession of:
(1) all or a portion of the grain located in the public
grain warehouse or warehouses; and
(2) all relevant records and property of the warehouse
operator.
(c) If the department takes possession of grain under
Subsection (b), the department shall give written notice of its
action to the surety on the bond of the warehouse operator and may
notify the holders of all receipts and scale weight tickets issued
for grain, as shown by the warehouse operator's records, to present
their receipts or scale weight tickets for inspection or account for
the absence of the receipts or scale weight tickets. The department
may then audit and investigate the affairs of the public grain
warehouse, especially with respect to the grain of which there is an
apparent shortage. The purpose of the audit and investigation is to
determine the amount of the shortage and, if practicable, to compute
the shortage as to each depositor, as shown by the warehouse
operator's records. The department shall notify the warehouse
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 128 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

operator and the surety on the warehouse operator's bond of the
approximate amount of the shortage. The department shall notify each
depositor affected by the shortage by sending notice to the
depositor's last known address, as shown by the warehouse operator's
records.
(d) The department shall retain possession of grain obtained
under this section until:
(1) the warehouse operator or surety on the bond satisfies
the claims of all depositors, within the limitations on liability
imposed by this chapter; or
(2) the court orders the department to surrender
possession.
(e) If, during or after an audit or investigation authorized by
this section or at any other time, the department has evidence that
the warehouse operator is insolvent or unable to satisfy the claims
of all depositors, the department may petition the district court for
appointment of a receiver to operate or liquidate the business of the
warehouse operator in accordance with law.
(f) A license suspension issued under this section remains in
effect until lifted by the department through written notice to the
warehouse operator or as provided by Section 14.066.
Renumbered from Sec. 14.024 and amended by Acts 2001, 77th Leg., ch.
1124, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 2001.
Amended by:
Acts 2011, 82nd Leg., R.S., Ch. 168 (S.B. 248), Sec. 4, eff.
September 1, 2011.

