Sec. 71.0083. AGRICULTURE WARRANTS. (a) In addition to
vehicle inspections authorized under Section 71.0081, the department
may seek an agriculture warrant with respect to a plant pest or plant
disease identified in the application for the warrant to:
(1) conduct an inspection of:
(A) physical areas;
(B) containers;
(C) buildings; or
(D) items that are reasonably likely to contain:
(i) a plant pest;
(ii) a plant disease; or
(iii) an infected or potentially infected plant;
(2) set a trap for certain plant pests;
(3) examine records pertaining to the detection, treatment,
purchase, or sale of plants; or
(4) test, treat, identify, quarantine, take samples of,
seize, or destroy infected or potentially infected plants.
(b) An agriculture warrant may be issued only by a magistrate
authorized to issue a search warrant under Chapter 18, 18A, or 18B,
Code of Criminal Procedure, only after the department has exercised
reasonable efforts to obtain consent to conduct a search, and on
application by the department accompanied by a supporting affidavit
that establishes probable cause for the issuance of the warrant. The
warrant must describe:
(1) the street address and municipality or the parcel
number and county of each place or premises subject to the warrant;
and
(2) each type of plant pest or disease that is the subject
of the warrant.
(c) In determining the existence of probable cause for the
issuance of an agriculture warrant, it shall be sufficient to show
only that:
(1) the place or premises described in the application for
the warrant are located in an area subject to a quarantine
established by the department with respect to the plant pest or
disease that is the subject of the warrant; or
(2) there is a reasonable probability the place or premises
contain a plant pest or disease or are located in an area that is
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 418 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

reasonably suspected of being infected with a plant pest or disease
because of its proximity to a known infestation.
(d) A single application and affidavit is sufficient for the
issuance of multiple agriculture warrants if the application for the
warrant describes the location of each place or premises subject to
the warrant and all those places or premises are located in the same
county.
(e) The department is entitled to an ex parte hearing on an
application for an agriculture warrant. The warrant may be served
and executed by a department employee and shall authorize department
employees to undertake any action authorized by the warrant. On
request by the department, a sheriff or constable shall accompany and
assist the department employee in serving or executing the warrant.
(f) At the time the warrant is executed, a copy of the warrant
shall be:
(1) delivered to a person 18 years of age or older who is
occupying or living in the place or premises subject to the warrant;
or
(2) attached to the place or premises in a conspicuous
location.
(g) An agriculture warrant is valid until the 61st day after
the date the warrant is issued and authorizes multiple executions of
the warrant before the date the warrant expires. A warrant may be
renewed or extended by the magistrate who issued the original warrant
if the magistrate determines there is probable cause for the warrant
to be reissued or extended. The agriculture warrant must be returned
to the issuing magistrate before the warrant expires.
(h) An agriculture warrant may not:
(1) be executed between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m. of the following
day or on a state holiday;
(2) authorize the entry into or inspection of the interior
of any occupied residential dwelling; or
(3) be issued in blank.
(i) A person commits an offense if the person intentionally
interferes with the execution of an agriculture warrant. An offense
under this subsection is a Class B misdemeanor.
(j) This section does not restrict the authority of this state
or a political subdivision of this state to otherwise conduct an
inspection with or without a warrant as authorized by other law.

Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 419 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

Added by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 411 (H.B. 1949), Sec. 1, eff.
September 1, 2009.
Amended by:
Acts 2017, 85th Leg., R.S., Ch. 1058 (H.B. 2931), Sec. 3.01, eff.
January 1, 2019.

