Sec. 80.0175. SUIT TO COLLECT DELINQUENT ASSESSMENT. (a) At
any time after an assessment becomes delinquent, the corporation may
investigate conditions that relate to the prompt remittance of the
assessment by a citrus producer.
(b) If the corporation determines that a citrus producer has
failed to remit an assessment to the corporation as required by this
chapter, the corporation may:
(1) independently bring suit against the citrus producer to
obtain appropriate injunctive relief or a judgment in the amount due
to the corporation, including:
(A) the amount of delinquent assessments;
(B) penalties assessed under Section 80.017(a); and
(C) interest on delinquent assessments and penalties;
or
(2) request the department, the attorney general, or a
county or district attorney having jurisdiction to file suit on the
corporation's behalf.
(c) A court shall order the injunctive relief necessary to
ensure payment of the delinquent assessments by the citrus producer.
(d) A court shall grant injunctive relief under Subsection (b)
without a bond.
(e) In a petition for injunctive relief under Subsection (b),
the corporation may also seek to secure payment of assessments for
the current year that are not yet delinquent. The corporation shall
estimate the amount of any assessments for the year that have not yet
been made.
(f) A petition under Subsection (b) is sufficient if it alleges
that:
(1) the corporation is legally constituted and authorized
to impose and collect assessments from citrus producers;
(2) assessments in the amounts stated were legally imposed
on the citrus producer for each year specified in the suit;
(3) the assessments are delinquent;
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 606 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

(4) penalties, interest, and costs allowed by law in the
amounts stated are due in connection with the assessments;
(5) the citrus producer named in the suit was legally
subject to assessments under this chapter when the assessments became
due;
(6) the corporation has done all things required under this
chapter to enforce the payment of the assessments; and
(7) the attorney signing the petition is legally authorized
to prosecute the suit on behalf of the corporation.
(g) The corporation, the department, the attorney general, and
a county or district attorney are entitled to recover reasonable
expenses incurred in obtaining injunctive relief or a judgment under
this section, including:
(1) investigatory costs and fees;
(2) reasonable attorney's fees; and
(3) court costs.
(h) Venue for a suit under this section is in:
(1) Travis County; or
(2) the county in which the citrus producer named in the
suit is located or conducts business related to the production of
citrus.
Added by Acts 2021, 87th Leg., R.S., Ch. 350 (H.B. 2841), Sec. 1, eff.
June 7, 2021.

