Sec. 76.042. CONTENT OF REGISTRATION APPLICATION. (a) The
application for registration of a pesticide shall include:
(1) the name and address of the applicant and the name and
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 520 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

address of the person whose name will appear on the pesticide label,
if not the applicant's;
(2) the name of the pesticide;
(3) a complete copy of all labeling to accompany the
pesticide and a statement of all claims to be made for it, including
the directions for use and, if the pesticide is required to be
registered with the United States Environmental Protection Agency, a
copy of the Environmental Protection Agency stamped accepted labeling
and any applicable comment pages;
(4) the use classification, whether for restricted or
general use, as provided by the federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and
Rodenticide Act, as amended, or by a rule adopted under that Act;
(5) the use classification proposed by the applicant, if
the pesticide is not required by federal law to be registered under a
use classification; and
(6) other information required by the department for
determining the eligibility for registration.
(b) The department may require the applicant to submit the
complete formula for a pesticide, including active and inert
ingredients, as a prerequisite to registration.
(c) The department may require a full description of the tests
made and the results of the tests on which claims are based before
approving registration of a pesticide that is not registered under
federal law or for which federal or state restrictions on use are
being considered.
(d) A person located outside this state, as a condition to
registration of a pesticide, shall file with the department a written
instrument designating a resident agent for service of process in
actions taken in the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
Instead of designating a resident agent, the person may designate in
writing the secretary of state as the recipient of service of process
for the person in this state.
Acts 1981, 67th Leg., p. 1192, ch. 388, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1, 1981.
Amended by Acts 1997, 75th Leg., ch. 1369, Sec. 1, eff. Sept. 1,
1997.

