Sec. 12.0026. INTERAGENCY FARM-TO-SCHOOL COORDINATION TASK
FORCE. (a) To promote a healthy diet for schoolchildren and the
business of small to mid-sized local farms and ranches, the
interagency farm-to-school coordination task force shall develop and
implement a plan to facilitate the availability of locally grown food
products in public schools.
(b) The task force is composed of:
(1) a representative of:
(A) the department, appointed by the commissioner;
(B) the Texas Education Agency, appointed by the
commissioner of education; and
(C) the Department of State Health Services, appointed
by the commissioner of state health services; and
(2) at least one representative of each of the following
groups, appointed by the commissioner:
(A) fruit and vegetable producer organizations;
(B) school food service organizations;
(C) food distribution businesses;
(D) child nutrition and advocacy organizations;
(E) parent organizations;
(F) educational institutions that conduct research in
the areas of agriculture and nutrition; and
(G) health nutrition educators who serve school
districts.
(c) A member of the task force serves at the will of the
official who appointed the member.
(d) The representative of the department serves as presiding
officer. The task force may elect other necessary officers from its
members.
(e) The task force shall meet at the call of the presiding
officer.
(f) The agency whose commissioner appoints a member is
responsible for the expenses of a member's service on the task force.
A member of the task force is not entitled to additional compensation
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 10 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

for serving on the task force.
(g) Each appropriate agency or group represented on the task
force shall provide the personnel and resources necessary to
implement a task force measure under this section.
(h) The task force shall:
(1) design new education resources, or review or update
existing resources, on nutrition and food education that may be used
by schools and school districts;
(2) expand food-focused experiential education programs;
(3) offer assistance in identifying funding sources and
grants that allow schools and school districts to recover the costs
associated with purchasing locally grown food products;
(4) develop a database of available locally grown food
products for use by school food service agencies that includes
contact and purchasing information for the products;
(5) identify, design, or make available training programs
to enable local farmers and ranchers to market their products to
schools and school districts, including programs related to:
(A) crop production;
(B) marketing of crops;
(C) postharvest handling of crops;
(D) food safety;
(E) business management;
(F) liability and risk management; and
(G) other topics deemed appropriate by the task force;
(6) advise schools and school districts on methods by which
a school or school district may improve its facilities to allow for
the use of minimally processed, fresh, and locally produced foods in
school meals;
(7) provide technical assistance to school food service
agencies to establish procedures, recipes, menu rotations, and other
internal processes that accommodate the use of locally grown foods in
public schools;
(8) offer advanced skills development training to school
food service employees regarding the proper methods of handling,
preparing, and serving locally grown foods; and
(9) conduct any other activity considered by the task force
as necessary to achieve its goals under this section.
(i) The task force may solicit and accept gifts, grants, and
donations from public and private entities to use for the purposes of
Statute text rendered on: 8/6/2022

- 11 -

AGRICULTURE CODE

this section.
(j) The task force may use any existing program or procedure
that it determines to be useful in performing its duties under this
section.
Added by Acts 2009, 81st Leg., R.S., Ch. 1376 (S.B. 1027), Sec. 1,
eff. September 1, 2009.

